All Praise is due to Allah Alone, The All- Mighty, All-Wise... And may His Peace and Blessings be upon Prophet Muhammad his companions and all those who follow him till the Day of Judgment. In the glorious history of our Muslim Ummah, there have been many high points and there have been many low points as well; but one main theme has persisted throughout the lives of all those who yearned to give glory to this Ummah: They remembered and acted upon the legacy of their predecessors. We live in a day and age when we have lost connection with our history; the nations that have ruled over the Muslim Ummah for a long time have rendered us blind to the passion, brilliance and valor of our pious predecessors – from the time of the Sahaba up till even now. We do not recognize who our heroes or role models truly are. Names like Khalid bin Waleed, Sultan Jalaluddin Khwarizm, Noor-ud-Din Zangi, Salahuddin Ayyubi, Tipu Sultan, Imam Shamil, Umar Mukhtar (May Allah accept their efforts) fail to strike a chord with us today whereas in actuality, they would raise the hairs on our backs if we truly knew who these people were... Their lives are sufficient to inspire a generation of individuals to change their lives and live freely... But unfortunately, the world with all its glamor and deception has deceived us... We are too busy with our universities, our 9-5 jobs and our mundane routines to think about ever emulating the example of someone like Salahuddin (RA) or Jalaluddin (RA) or ever letting our children follow their example! Our children grow up learning about Da Vinci, Napoleon, Shakespeare, Einstein, Lincoln and other such people who were – in the reality of things – none but Kuffar who failed to live their life according to how their Creator asked of them. And their destination is undoubtedly Hell... “Those who disbelieve and deny Our signs - they are the people of the Fire.” [5:10] And yet, those people who lived in this world truly successfully – as Allah says: “Verily, those who believe and do righteous good deeds, for them will be Gardens under which rivers  ow (Paradise). That is the great success.” [85:11] ... We are unaware of their lives, their efforts and their sacrifice. We must strive to remember our history – our intellectual and Jihadi heritage, and we must strive to raise a new generation of Muslims who are engulfed in the knowledge of Quran and Sunnah, cleansed with the Remembrance of Allah, and armed with the sword and the shield to establish the Rule of Allah, to fight the oppressors and to safeguard the honor of the Islamic Ummah. In this lieu, I present to the reader some quotations from our pious predecessors – from within the battle arenas – with the hope that they may inspire our youth to forget about their mundane lives and pick up their Quran and their swords, to give victory to the religion of Allah, and to earn Paradise – the highest of rewards! And the battle elds of Syria, Afghanistan, Iraq, Yemen, Somalia, Pakistan, Algeria are ever decorated today... lands of Hijrah and Jihad... waiting for the Muslim Ummah to join them... \bearing shades from the shades of Paradise – for those willing to walk the path...