All Praise is due to Allah Alone – and may His Peace and Blessings be upon Prophet Muhammad, his family, companions and all those who follow him till the Day of Judgment. Following on from our series on the Life after Death, we now mention some of the details of the reward and punishment that the human soul will receive in the grave. This is a reminder to both Muslims and Kuffar around the world to turn back to Allah, and concentrate on their real future – the eternal afterlife about which there is no doubt whatsoever. We ask Allah to save us all from His Punishment. The punishments of the grave are a reality and the Prophet has taught us to seek refuge from them. It is narrated from Abu Hurayrah that the Prophet said, “When any of you finishes the final Tashahhud, he should seek refuge with Allah from four things: from the punishment of Jahannam (Hellfire), the punishment of the Grave, the trials of the living and the dead, and the trials of the Dajjal.” [Muslim] Let us now take a brief look at some of the punishments of the grave – and these are according to the level of the sins of a person. We seek Allah’s refuge from them. The Grave of the Kafir A bu Saeed Al-Khudhri t reports that the Messenger of Allah said, “When the funeral is ready (for its burial) and the people lift it on their shoulders, then if the deceased is a righteous person he says, ‘Take me ahead,’ and if he is not a righteous one then he says, ‘Woe to it (me)! Where are you taking it (me)?’ And his voice is audible to everything except human beings; and if they heard it, they would fall down unconscious” [Bukhari] Bara bin ‘Azib t reports that the Messenger of Allah said about the death of the Kafir: “... His spirit will be restored to his body; two angels will come to him, make him sit up and ask him: ‘Who is your Lord?’ He will reply: ‘Alas, alas! I do not know.’ They will ask him: ‘What is your religion?’ He will reply: ‘Alas, alas! I do not know.’ They will ask: ‘Who was the man who was sent on a mission among you?’ He will reply: ‘Alas, alas! I do not know.’ Then a crier will call from Heaven: ‘He has lied! So spread a bed for him from Hell, clothe him from Hell, and open for him a door into Hell.’ Then some of its heat and pestilential wind will come to him, and his grave will be compressed, so that his ribs will be crushed together.” [Abu Dawud] The torment of the Kafir, the apostate and the hypocrite starts immediately after death. The ripping out of the soul, the desperate crying unheard by men, the humiliation of the angels’ insults, the spread of fire under him, the regret of seeing his place in Paradise if he had become a Muslim – all these are warnings to the Kuffar to listen to the message of The Quran and take heed of its words. The position of Ahlus-Sunnah Wal Jama’ah with regards to the Muslim sinner is that he will ultimately enter Paradise because of his declaration of faith, La ilaha ill Allah Muhammad- ur-Rasoolullah. However, he may receive punishment for his misdeeds in this life which do not reach the level of Kufr or Shirk. Let us now look at some of the punishments in the Barzakh mentioned in the revealed texts regarding the Muslim sinner. Most of these were mentioned in the Hadith of the Prophet’s night journey and in a separate Hadith narrated by Imam Bukhari (RA) which mentioned a dream of the Prophet. For the sake of brevity and understanding, the relevant parts of these Ahadith will be listed below: We seek Allah’s refuge from His torment: The one who turned away from prayer “... Some people were cracking open their heads with a stone. Every time they did this, their heads were restored to what they were like in the first place. This went on and on without stopping. I (the Prophet e) said, ‘Jibril! Who are they?’ Jibril replied, ‘They are people who turned away from the prayer’...” The one who didn’t pay Zakah “... They will be driven like cattle and forced to eat herbage more bitter than aloes and the bitter fruit of Zaqqum and driven on the hot stones of Hellfire because they did not purify their property with Zakah...”