Allah says: ”Truly! This Ummah of yours is one Ummah, and I am your Lord, so worship Me (Alone).” [21:92] “And hold fast, all of you together, to the Rope of Allah (i.e. this Quran), and be not divided among yourselves...” [3:103] The Prophet said: “It pleases Allah for you to acquire three qualities and displeases Him that you acquire three characteristics. It pleases Him that you worship Him Alone and not associate anything or anyone with Him in worship, that you hold on to the Rope of Allah altogether and do not divide, and that you advise whoever Allah appoints as your Leader. The three that displease Him are that you say, `It was said,’ and, `So-and-so said,’ asking many unnecessary questions and wasting money.” [Bukhari] The “nation state” has destroyed the unity of the Ummah and split it into bits and pieces, entirely vulnerable to the plans of the Kuffar. The great Mujahid leader, Shaykh Dr. Ayman Al-Zawahiri (HA) sums up the Muslim loss in a few impeccable words: “My free and honorable brothers, who are eager to help Islam and liberate Palestine! We must read history and comprehend its lessons. Palestine was lost when the Khilafah fell and we were dominated by secularism and territorial nationalism which has torn us apart and continues to tear us apart. One of the fundamental interests of the West and the Zionists, and indeed, one of the necessities of their existence, is that they divide us by spreading the principles of the secular nationalist nation state and homeland among us, so that we become crumbs that they can easily devour. As a result of this ethnic and territorial nationalism, we broke apart after the fall of the Khilafah into more than fifty helpless vassal states.” The reviver of Jihad, Shaykh Abdullah Azzam (RA) said: “Sykes and Picot created borders for us. They said to us, Jordan ends here at ar-Ramtha, and Syria begins after Ar-Ramtha, and Jordan begins after Harat Ammar. And Kuwait? Here it is! The city of Kuwait, the “state” of Kuwait... And the state of Qatar is a single city. And so is the state of Bahrain. And Lebanon? Here it is... the size of a coin. That’s the state of Lebanon. And here is Syria. Listen, this is your land and your birthplace, and love of one’s homeland is part of faith. And so on... And so we have begun to think in an “Islamic way” which is in truth not an Islamic way but rather, a territorial way of thinking daubed with Islam. The Jordanian in Ar-Ramtha sees the resident of Dara’a [across the Syrian border] being slaughtered in front of him by the Nusayrites; yet, he does not even bat an eyelid, move a muscle, or take an extra heartbeat; nor is he prepared to open the borders. Why? Because Islam ends at Ar-Ramtha; and he has nothing to do with Islam in Dara’a. But when a Jordanian in Al-‘Aqaba winces in pain, you’ll find the same person (from Ar-Ramtha) up in arms, although the distance between Al-‘Aqaba and Ar-Ramtha is more than 600 km, while the di erence between al-Ramtha and Dara’a is less than 6 km. This isn’t an Islamic attitude; this isn’t the attitude of ”Truly! This Ummah of yours is one Ummah, and I am your Lord, so worship Me (Alone).” [21:92] This isn’t the global outlook of Islam which says: India is ours and China is ours India is ours and China is ours And the earth is ours and all is ours Islam has become our religion And the entire world is our homeland The constitution of Allah is our religion And we have made our hearts its home.” All Muslims are united upon true faith in Allah, His Messenger and His Final Book. However, these false lines have been etched upon us on the basis of which entire political, military, economic and cultural institutions have been established that seek division between the Pakistani and the Indian, between the Egyptian and the Turk, between the Chechen and the Uzbek. There is no reality in these divides. As has been emphasized earlier in the article, in Islam, divide between humanity is upon faith, upon love for Allah and His Messenger. So, we as an Ummah must take practical steps to defeat this divided mentality and erase these map lines physically that indoctrinate the Ummah into believing in this false separation. Another devastating aspect of the imposition of the nation state upon the Muslim Ummah was the discontinuation and destruction of the concept of Jihad for the sake of Allah. Jihad is a firm obligation upon the Muslim Ummah to defend the Muslims and their lands, spread the Dawah of Islam and establish Allah’s Rule on earth. As Allah says: “Jihad is ordained for you (Muslims) though you dislike it, and it may be that you dislike a thing which is good for you and that you like a thing which is bad for you. Allah knows but you do not know” [2:216] However, after the fall of the Khilafah a lot of the Muslim lands that underwent the secular transformation built armies that had a new agenda and a new philosophy. The author of the book, “Important Rulings Regarding the State of the Militaries of the Ummah” writes: “The crusader establishment did not leave the Muslim lands until after it had created systems and promoted leaders with whom they would be pleased and who would safeguard their interests in the region...” The First World War saw the Khilafah Uthmaniah side with Austria and Germany against the Allies (Britain, France and Russia). The Khilafah and the allies were defeated in this war and henceforth disintegration started to spread. As stated in the previous issues, by 1924 – the Khilafah ceased to exist. The Khilafah served as a united front for the Muslims, and Jihad for the sake of Allah was fought under its banner despite its weakness during its final years. However, after the fall of the Khilafah, a new phenomenon managed to surface that had its influence in Europe’s deification of the “state”. The secular state borrowed from Europe held the view that the army of the state must possess its loyalty to the “state” and to its man-made constitution. It is organized to uphold the “rule of law”. These armies were created on the pattern of the Western nationalistic armies and their aims of establishment were to uphold the rule of law of the Taghut and to uphold alliance and enmities for the sake of the state and not for Allah. Dr. Khalid Mehmand writes in his excellent book entitled, “Theories of Modern Warfare”: “The French revolution is the most important event in modern human history. Due to it, a secular system of life was implemented in Europe in place of the papal/kingship/landlordism that had existed previously. The church – which used to safeguard God’s Sovereignty – was abolished and sovereignty was handed over to the people, as democracy replaced kingship. Hence, man’s purpose of life was declared to be ‘capitalistic progress’. In the social vacuum created by the French revolution, a major issue was that of the royal army. The royal soldiers would fight, considering the king as ‘God’s Shadow’ on earth. They would consider the King’s defeat as their own and they would consider it a religious obligation to sacrifice their lives for him. But now, after the secular revolution, there was no room for such beliefs. At the same time, it was a given that a military could not be incited to wage war without a clear ideology, a strong mutual bond and a strong certainty in their principles. Therefore, the European states needed an ideology to keep their militaries alive and united. The answer to the Europeans’ question was delivered by a General from Prussia named Clausewitz. Clausewitz’ ideology of war is considered the ‘Bible’ in the organization of the modern nationalistic armies. The Westerners and their blind followers consider Clausewitz as the ‘prophet’ of modern militarism... ...Clausewitz’ ideology could not attain public attention during his life. In 1833, he became ill. After his death, his widow converted his ideas into a book and published it. But despite this, the book did not attain any substantial attention... In 1871, the French King Napoleon III attacked Austria. In this war, the Austrian military was under the command of Clausewitz’ most able student, General Moltke. General Moltke had organized the Austrian military according to the ideas of Clausewitz. The French suffered a most devastating defeat in this war. The whole of Europe was shocked at Austria’s victory. And when it was found that Clausewitz’ ideas were the reason behind the victory, the whole of Europe started to organize their forces according to this ideology. The Muslim Ummah had become so weak at that point that the Khilafah Uthmaniah had appointed General Moltke to organize their military forces. The other military powers at the time also organized the armies of the newly populated regions according to these ideas. So Britain which had occupied India, and France which had occupied Algeria organized their armies according to these ideas. And in this way, in a period of less than 70 years, almost all countries’ forces were organized according to Clausewitz’s ideas, until these newly formed nationalistic armies even became known as ‘Clausewitz’s Armies’. What’s important for us to understand is that after the end of the USSR, now almost on all fronts, our battle is against these Clausewitz armies. Whether it is the American or European forces or the forces that are implanted upon our necks... All of them have the same basic philosophy and ideology. Possibly, it is the result of this philosophical and ideological a nity that all of these (nationalistic “Muslim” Armies and Kafir Armies) have easily united upon this one plan of destroying Islam. Thus they have become like one International Dajjali Army that has unleashed upon the Muslim Ummah... ...For any Army, the most important aspect is its ideology of war. It is on the basis of this ideology that the soldiers fight and lay down their lives. The ideology of war is actually a collection of questions... For example, What is war? Why does man engage in war? Where does man obtain the spirit to fight? Why does man kill other men like him and who gives him permission to do so? Which war is justified and which isn’t? Who has the authority to wage war and who doesn’t? Etc. A believer who believes in Allah Alone gets all these questions answered via his faith, belief and religion. However, when the West denied Allah’ s right to legislate after the secular French revolution, they had to answer these questions to motivate their soldiers for war. So, this job was accomplished for them by Clausewitz. And today, under the secular system prevalent in the world, all the nation-state armies (even those in the Muslim-majority countries) are organized according to Clausewitz’ ideology of war, and they fight on its basis. Let us consider these in detail: Clausewitz had the following goals in mind while newly organizing the armies: To transform the royal army into a nationalistic army; To convert the royal soldier into a nationalistic soldier; To change the ideology of war; To adapt the army’s organizational framework according to this ideology. To obtain these goals, Clausewitz had the following main ideas in mind: Just Force: According to Clausewitz, the Democratic state is the one “rightful power” that can order war. Apart from this, there is no other power that has the authority to wage war – neither God, nor religion, nor Shariah, nor the scholars (We seek refuge with Allah). War: A Continuation of the State’s Policy: According to Clausewitz, ‘war’ is a state’s political tool, or a continuation of the state’s policy. It is the result of this very ideology that despite bearing all kinds of power and ability, all the armies of the Muslim Ummah do not fight Jihad in the way of Allah; rather, they fight under the command of the democratic Government and to safeguard the interests of the state. Thus, even if the Shariah ordains Jihad, and the state’s policy is against it, then these armies do not wage war. And if the Shariah forbids fighting and the state’s policy dictates war, these armies forego all Shariah commands and jump into these wars. The History of the Regiment – The Catalyst for War: The basic unit of the Army according to Clausewitz is the Regiment. A lot of Divisions combine together to make a Regiment. Then the Division is one unit of a military power. According to Clausewitz, the‘Regiment’is a complete society. Clausewitz contends that man gains the willingness to fight due to two reasons: a collective reason i.e. the spirit of patriotism, and then an individual reason i.e. a deep connection with the history of the Regiment. Therefore, Clausewitz connects the royal soldier, who previously fought considering the king as the shadow of God, with his Regiment’s history and in doing so provides him with a new stimulus and a fresh wave of emotion. Therefore, that ‘royal soldier’ is now converted to a ‘national soldier’. Then, experience also proved that even though patriotism is a powerful factor in drawing the soldier to the battle eld, but during battle, he sacri ces his life only for greater glori cation of his Regiment’s ‘golden history’ and for increasing his Regiment’s honor and grandeur. In short, according to Clausewitz, the Regiment’s history has proved to be a more powerful stimulus for war than patriotism. Thus, if the soldier is a liated openly with the dark reality of his Regiment’s ‘glorious history’, then his motivation for fighting can be easily driven off. Civilized and Uncivilized War: According to Clausewitz, war is of two types: ‘Civilized war’ and ‘Uncivilized war’. Civilized war is that which is waged on the order of the nation-state because it is the nation-state that is the guardian of the new civilization. Hence, whatever war the state wages, that shall be civilized. “Non-state actors” (e.g. Mujahideen, Ulema) therefore, have no right to wage war in the first place; and if they do wage war, then that war will be called an “uncivilized war”. The Legal Justification for Bearing Arms: On this basis, he divides the society into “legally armed individuals” and “illegally armed individuals”. The army soldier is the legally armed individual of the society while if rest of the society bears arms, their bearing arms is declared illegal. In reality, according to Clausewitz, it is only the democratic state that can give man the authority to bear arms. Other than it, there is no one who has the right to give an individual or a group the right to bear arms. Now since the “state” has given the military and the police the right to bear arms, hence it is “lawful” for them to do so; while it is “unlawful” for others to do the same! The Selection of the Soldier for the Army: Special attention has been given to the individuals of the society in selecting a national soldier. In this lieu, the philosophy of a “Martial Race” and a “Military Mind” has been presented. According to this ideology, in every nation and country, there exist certain individuals who possess weak personalities and thought processes, but are highly ambitious. Such individuals have a greater capability of becoming national soldiers. Due to their weak personalities and thought processes, such people are unable to rebel against their country and army and due to their high ambitions, they stay at the forefront in causing loss to the enemy’s army. After understanding the ideologies of Clausewitz, we can easily understand how Clausewitz connected the Royal Soldier with the democratic Government. First, a weak personality is selected. Then such a person is connected with nationalism and the Regiment’s history. Then this Regiment is connected with the Brigade, the Division and the (whole) military. During training, the soldier is told that the only lawful power for ordering war is the democratic state. Other than it, there is no power that has the authority to order war. Similarly, he is also told that it is only the uniformed soldier who bears arms on the order of the state, who can fight a civilized and lawful war. Whoever bears arms other than the soldier... even if with the intention of Jihad... he is the perpetrator of an “uncivilized”, “illegal” act. At this time, the militaries of the entire world – whether in the West or in the Muslim countries – are organized according to these Kufr ideologies of Clausewitz. Hence, it is not possible for these nationalistic militaries to play any role in establishing the Khilafah and waging Jihad in the Path of Allah. These armies have their own formulated beliefs and ideologies and their own thought and philosophy. Their way of thought, organization, goals and aims are all separate from those of this Ummah, and run contrary to Islam. Hence, it is utterly impossible for these armies to be converted to “Islamic armies” via some minor changes. These are not “our armies”... They are “armies of the West”. Let alone waging Jihad, they are the main obstacle in establishing Khilafah and waging Jihad! May Allah rid us off them! Ameen!” The reality is that after the fall of the Khilafah and the rise of the nation state, these nationalistic Armies were implanted upon the Muslim Ummah – and many of the Muslims were made to believe that Jihad was the duty of these armies and the rest of the Ummah was absolved of this duty. What this meant was that the spirit of Jihad to establish the Rule of Allah faded away from the masses and the scholars, and Islam became restricted to the Masjid and the madrassah. For a long time, the Ummah became dormant – some of which might have been due to considering the “country” or “nation state” as properly Islamic and some of which might have been due to foregoing the duty of Jihad, by considering it the job of the Military. Even today, many Muslims mistakenly believe that they are absolved of the duty of Jihad because that is the job of the Army and the Police! We seek refuge with Allah! Maulana Zahid Iqbal, an esteemed Islamic scholar who has written books on many of the critical contemporary issues faced by the Muslim Ummah, writes in his book “Asr-e-Hazir main Ghalaba-e-Deen ka Nabwi Tareeqa-e-Kar” (The Prophetic Method of giving victory to the religion in the Contemporary Times): “In the countries that obtained freedom from the imperialistic powers, the biggest hurdle faced by the Islamic movements that sought to establish the Islamic system and the Shariah Law, has been the (Nationalistic) Army. Whenever these Islamic movements neared victory through protests, demands and the democratic way, the military snatched the Rule and declared these (Islamic) groups as illegal; or the military used its influence and power to dissolve legislative assemblies and deny the standpoint of the parties that had reached the assemblies through democratic elections and their public support. It is worth pondering upon for those people who are trying to revive Islam that how come the Army played such a role against the Islamic parties in all of the Muslim countries that gained independence from the imperialistic powers? If one researches and ponders deeply, it becomes really clear that the imperialistic powers are behind it. They hired local people in the new-population period and trained them in their particular ideology; on the one hand, they gave increase to their period of rule and used them against their fellow-country Mujahideen who were fighting for freedom, while on the other, they left, as their inheritors, such people who were not only the protectors of the systems, ideologies, societies and constitutions implemented by these powers, but who also served, through proper planning, to stop any and all attempts to establish Islam. These same establishment powers also created a class of civil bureaucrats who played part in this. These two classes (Military and Civil Bureaucracy) till today are acting upon these imperialistic agendas and are the main obstacle behind the establishment of Islam. Both of these classes of people were promoted to higher ranks on the promise that they would block the progress of those who call for Islam and of the establishment of the Islamic system. After 9/11, the filtering out of people linked to Islam from the Pakistani Army is a clear evidence of this. Hence, those who are striving to revive the Khilafah must ponder upon this issue and come up with a method to get rid of this big obstacle (The Army).” The point that we intend to drive home is that these armies are not Muslim armies. They fight for the establishment of man-made law, not the law of Allah. They openly conspire with the enemies of Islam to kill the Mujahid sons of this Ummah. Their open declarations of being “front line allies in the war against terror” shout out their real agendas. If Muslim Rule is again to be established anywhere in the Muslim Ummah, this corrupt institution needs to be completely uprooted and re-organized, and in its place, a Muslim Mujahid institution that orders the good and forbids the evil, that upholds the Rule of the Quran, that considers it its duty to safeguard the Muslims of the East and the West, and that seeks to re-capture Jerusalem from the wretched hands of the Jews – needs to be implemented. And it is for this greater goal that the battle elds of Syria, Iraq, Pakistan, Afghanistan etc. are decorated In Sha Allah!