On the ground, the Crusaders have experienced that the more soldiers they send towards the Muslim lands, the target range of Mujahideen expands, resulting in lot of casualties amongst their soldiers. Also the difficulties and hardships of war make their soldiers psychiatric patients, this being a real war and not a Hollywood movie... Therefore, militarily, the USA has resorted towards 2 main strategies: 1) Conducting Raids. 2) Drone Attacks . 1) Conducting Raids: Raiding has been a common tactic of the USA since the war started in 2001. The difference is that from 2001 till 2012, they conducted raids on common Muslims wherever and whenever they wanted. The Crusaders raided common Muslims households, arresting men who were not even Mujahideen. They took away the daughters of this Ummah, violating their honor and buried them in the ground. For this reason the Muslims in Afghanistan, especially in Kunar and Nuristan provinces, started to build hidden rooms in their homes in order to hide their women and children during American raids. But now after losing the battle on the ground, they have been forced to roll back their camps from much of Afghanistan. Recently they have only focused their raids on high priority targets like the raids that they recently conducted in Libya and Somalia. The advantage they have in night-raids is that the Apache helicopters have night vision as do the American soldiers. But as the Mujahideen guard themselves at night, it’s not a big problem. One Turkish brother gave me a first-hand account of an American night-raid on their camp in Afghanistan. He had placed guarding duty in turns for every brother. The brothers got alerted when the American helicopters came, so they immediately took positions. The Americans descended carrying M-16s with laser target pointers but these laser pointers played out positive for the Mujahideen and the Turkish brothers started shooting at the source of the lasers, eventually causing multiple casualties and forcing the enemy to retreat. 2) Drone Attacks: As American soldiers are pampered cowards, it’s very hard for them to survive in rough and tough places like Iraq and Afghanistan. Truly they are not man enough to face the lions of Allah; the apostate Governments in Muslim lands accommodate and cooperate with the CIA in carrying out these drone attacks. W hat we have learned in Jihad is that whatever military equipment that they brought can always be countered by us through the Help of Allah. This optimistic mentality and the consequent success has made the Mujahideen’s psyche so strong that they will never surrender to anyone. When they used Jammers to jam our Improvised Explosives Devices (IED’s), the Mujahideen, after seizing the American camps, confiscated those jammers and passed it to our electronic engineers who created anti-Jammers. In the first issue of Azan Magazine I had discussed in detail about how drones operate in an article named “The Drone Chain”, and in the same article I asked for a response from my brothers of the blessed Ummah. The response was overwhelming and it further cleared our understanding and enlarged our database regarding countering the unmanned aircraft. Information is crucial in countering any technology. The good news to the brothers is that we have closed the communication gap between us. We are stepping towards the right direction and the more we’ll cooperate, co-ordinate and communicate regarding this collective threat to the Ummah, In Sha Allah I hope we’ll make these drones useless for the Crusaders. We are an Ummah of 1.6 billion Muslims, with no shortage of mind, resources and most importantly men. “O you who believe! If you help (in the cause of) Allah, He will help you, and make your foothold firm.” [47:7] Below is a counter-drone strategy that we have devised: Join The Caravan of Homegrown Heroes! Join the caravan of our brothers Nidal Hassan, Tamerlan and Dzhokhar among others. This is the paramount action that you can take in helping the global Jihad, countering and taking revenge of drone strikes on Muslims, avenging what the USA and her allies have done in the Muslim lands and most importantly, this can be a giant step in freeing Palestine from the Jewish occupation. These Crusaders say that they are killing Muslims in their regions so that the war doesn’t come in their homeland; that is why they want to fight this war away from home. The brothers in the battlefield of Afghanistan and Iraq have given huge sacrifices but they can’t go to New York to take revenge for what the Crusaders and Zionists did in Jerusalem, Fallujah and Kandahar. We are looking towards our brothers in the West to act. Destroy their peace, security, economy and lives as they destroy ours! Brothers who are willing to attack in the West! What we are focused on is to cause maximum damage to the enemy. The experience that we have gained in the recent past is that the brothers who have the ability to train themselves and covertly act in their respective countries have a greater success rate than those planned from the theatres of Jihad and they carry a huge surprise factor. Those who have carried out attacks like our brothers Nidal Hassan, Tamerlan and Johar never travelled to Yemen or Pakistan. They never went through the strict airport and immigration checking. They were the pious explosives in the midst of Kuffar, who exploded on time for the benefit of the whole Ummah. The Kuffar have been trying their best to integrate the Muslims born in their lands into their kufr culture. But Alhamdulillah not only have many Muslim youth realized the only way towards success in this life and the next is by worshipping Allah through the action of Jihad, many of their own children have converted to the true religion and are willing to sacrifice their lives for Allah, His religion and the Ummah. The courses on how to make explosives are widely available on the internet. Alhamdulillah! There are Mujahid brothers who are working on such short courses as well which would teach a normal Muslim how to carry out such operations and also include the necessary precautions needed. In these courses, it will be precisely covered as to what necessary measures are needed to execute a successful operation in the West. Brothers who use Internet and are good in collecting data can massively contribute in countering drone technology, by: a) Passing any information regarding drones as much as you can to us on our Azan email address safely (never email us from your home, friend’s home, school and workplace). If it is a video link then copy the link and send it to us. b) Informing us of the location of drone bases in the USA and the whereabouts of drone operators. c) Informing us of the drone manufacturers, their partners and location? d) Researching on what type of frequency drones use to maintain the link to its satellite. Is this an RF, Ultrasonic or any other frequency?” Richard Clarke, former counter-terrorism advisor to the White House and current ABC News consultant commented after the first Issue of Azan Magazine. “Taking over the controls of a drone is beyond the capabilities of members of such militant organizations. For that to happen they need to hack into the private encrypted network of the Pentagon or physically overpower the links between the drone and GPS with airplanes, which these organization do not have.” We call on our skillful Muslim brothers who are engineers and scientists to come forward and try their best in figuring out how to break the link between drone and GPS. Experiment in whichever part of the world you live and if it’s successful, make a complete video demonstration of the process, upload it on the web and make it password protected. Then send that link and password to us. Or simply make a good graphical presentation in Power Point and send it to us. Even if you have made good progress in the experiment but encountered some complication in it then send it to us, maybe we can suggest something useful to you. Our brothers who are computer engineers and programmers - who can hack into the private encrypted network of the Pentagon, try your best to do so. The whole Ummah knows that we have no shortage of brilliant computer programmers and hackers. If only one brother takes the initiative and attempts to hack the Pentagon, he’ll set an excellent example for other brothers to follow suit. Like after the martyrdom operation of 9/11, some people initiated the martyrdom operations and then, with the Help of Allah, they became popular amongst the Ummah and turned out to be the most deadliest of weapons to be utilized against the Crusader Zionist alliance. This is one of the most important methods generally to counter Kufr and specifically to counter Drones. Since this is a lengthy topic, I’ll stick to my suggestions on how brothers can give Dawah and contribute in countering drones and helping the global Jihad. The security check in Muslim countries of Middle East, Subcontinent and Africa is relatively low as compared to the Western Kafir countries. So for example, if you are a university student in Kuala Lumpur (Malaysia) you can download Azan Magazine or Inspire Magazine from the Internet, print it and distribute it safely in your University or Masjid. Make a fake Facebook account and create a page for Azan Magazine, do some advertisement for the Magazine and reach out to our brothers in the West. If you are not an engineer who can break the link between drones and GPS, then send this suggestion to the engineer who you know can do it for Islam. Try to find that Hacker in Jakarta or Jeddah who can work only for Allah and be the candidate for the luxurious Jannah. Print the one page posters or the front page of Azan and Inspire Magazine and stick it to the public buses in Lahore and Mumbai. Do whatever you can to spread the word of Tawheed and Jihad! To summarize, this is the phase of the battle in which every Muslim can contribute to the global Jihad in whatever capacity they can. Above are humble suggestions to our brothers eager to help Islam. We, under the American drones and jet bombardments of the apostate governments, pray for the whole Ummah and especially for our brothers who are helping and contributing in the cause of Allah. May Allah protect the elite force (our brothers in the West) who are planning attacks in their homelands. We only seek the Pleasure of Allah, and it is He alone who guides to the right path. And may peace and blessings be upon our Master, Muhammad, his family, and companions. Our last prayer is that all praise belongs to Allah, The Lord of the Worlds.