All Praise is due to Allah Alone, The All- Mighty, All-Wise… And may His Peace and Blessings be upon Prophet Muhammad, his family, companions and all those who follow him till the Day of Judgment… There used to be a time when the truth was difficult to distinguish from falsehood and the friends of Allah were difficult to distinguish from the friends of shaytan (May Allah curse him). However, the two camps are rapidly being separated. This Ummah, in Egypt and Bangladesh has had thousands of its sons massacred. They were killed due to their demanding that the Law of Allah be implemented on the land of Allah. And who were the killers? They were people who spoke the same tongues and had the same skins as those they slaughtered; but their hearts had been depleted of Iman. After being denied the opportunity to try and establish this Deen through democracy, they went to the streets in protest. Although protesting is one’s right in democracy, this right is not available to those who demand the Shariah of Allah. Freedom from tyranny and man-made law cannot come through peaceful protests. This was a lesson sadly learnt in Syria; after tens of thousands lost their lives, the people realised that the only way to defeat these oppressive regimes is to answer their bullets with bullets and their bombs with bombs. Oh our dear Muslim Ummah! The Crusader-Zionists have been working day and night since the last few centuries to demolish Islam, as it was revealed to Prophet Muhammad. They seek to befool us that Islam can be stitched together with their Secular, Democratic “New World Order” and the “Constitutional” system which was only designed to serve their interests. Beware! The religion of Allah cannot be stitched together with any man-made religion, philosophy or ideology. Islam came down to rule, and it cannot be ruled over! Therefore, we call you to carefully understand the call of the Mujahideen and the righteous scholars! Understand the word of Tawheed – upon which the balance of the entire universe so delicately stands. Understand the heinous crime of those who forsake the Hakimiyyah of Allah and implement laws on earth that do not have any authority from Allah! We are free from this “New World Order”, its bogus “Charters”, its “Democracy” and its putrid “Constitutions”! We believe in Allah Alone – and His Shariah, His Legislation Alone; there is absolutely no compromise on this issue. The governments and armies of our lands are in place only to suppress the true call of Islam, and they receive their orders from the greatest criminal nation in history, America, and its Crusader-Zionist allies. The only way these criminals will be removed from power and the Law of Allah established on earth is through Jihad fee Sabeelillah against America who is behind all of the Tawagheet who have usurped power in our lands, then against their stooges in the Muslim world. If we carry on this path with the Quran in one hand and the sword in the other, we believe, and we pray to Allah, that the time is near when we will see the end of these apostate regimes. So, dear Ummah! Follow the example of your Mujahid brothers in Afghanistan, Iraq, Syria, Somalia, Pakistan, Nigeria, Mali, Sinai, Yemen, North Africa and The Caucasus among others, who have sacrificed their lives for this noble cause. And if the Shariah does not get implemented in our lives, and we die striving for it, even then we are successful. Maulana Abdul Rasheed Ghazi (May Allah have mercy on him) who was martyred in Lal Masjid simply for calling to the Shariah of Allah, explained to us the reality of our struggle quite succinctly: “The Divine revelations denote that the truth prevails under all circumstances. It is not necessary for us to be around for the truth to prevail. It is also quite possible that once we have departed from the world, this movement gains such strength that it succeeds in establishing the Islamic system. I believe that if the Islamic system is established at the cost of our lives, it will not be an unprofitable bargain!”