“...So we (The Prophet and the angels) proceeded and came across something like a Tannur. I (the narrator, Samura bin Jundub) think the Prophet said, ‘In that oven, there was much noise and voices.’ The Prophet added, ‘We looked into it and found naked men and women, and behold, a flame of fire was reaching to them from underneath, and when it reached them, they cried loudly’...” The angels later told the Prophet: “...And those naked men and women whom you saw in a construction resembling an oven, they are the adulterers and the adulteresses...” “... And so we (The Prophet and the angels) proceeded and came across a river.’ (The narrator of the Hadith said) ‘I think he said, ‘.... red like blood.’’ The Prophet added, ‘And behold, in the river there was a man swimming, and on the bank there was a man who had collected many stones. Behold! While the other man was swimming, he went near him. The former opened his mouth and the latter (on the bank) threw a stone into his mouth whereupon he went swimming again. He returned and every time the performance was repeated...” The angels later told the Prophet: “...and the man whom you saw swimming in the river and being given a stone to swallow, is the eater of usury (Riba/ interest).” In another narration, it is said: “They will have bellies as big as houses and whenever one of them gets up, he is knocked down and says, ‘O Allah! Do not let the hour come!’ They are in the path of the people of Pharaoh who come and trample them while they can do nothing but scream. These are people who devoured usury.” “... So we (The Prophet and the angels) proceeded and came to a man lying flat on his back and another man standing over his head with an iron hook, and behold! He would put the hook in one side of the man’s mouth and tear off that side of his face to the back (of the neck) and similarly tear his nose from front to back and his eye from front to back. Then he turned to the other side of the man’s face and did just as he had done with the other side. He hardly completed his side when the other side returned to its normal state. Then he returned to it to repeat what he had done before...” “...As for the man you (O Muhammad) came upon, whose sides of mouth, nostrils and eyes were torn off from front to back, he is the symbol of the man who goes out of his house in the morning and tells so many lies that it spreads all over the world...” The Prophet said: “... I set out with them and we (Prophet and the angels) came across a man lying down, and behold! Another man was standing over his head, holding a big rock. Behold, he was throwing the rock at the man’s head, injuring it. The rock rolled away and the thrower followed it and took it back. By the time he reached the man, his head returned to the normal state. The thrower then did the same as he had done before...” The angels later told the Prophet that this man was “the symbol of the one who studies the Quran, and then neither recites it, nor acts on its orders and sleeps, neglecting the enjoined prayers.” “... They will cut pieces from their own sides and eat their own flesh. They are the slanderers and those about whom the Prophet said: ‘We saw people cutting flesh from their sides and eating it. It was said, ‘As you used to consume the flesh of your brother!’ I asked, ‘Who are they?’ and I was told, ‘Those of your community who slandered.’...” “... They will have brass nails with which they will scratch their faces and chests. They are those who were backbiters and maligned people’s honor...” Ibn ‘Abbas narrated that Allah’s Prophet passed by two graves and said, “Both of them (persons in the grave) are being tortured, and they are not being tortured for a major sin. This one used not to save himself from being soiled with his urine, and the other used to go about with calumnies (among the people to rouse hostilities, e.g., one goes to a person and tells him that so-and-so says about him such-and-such evil things).” The Prophet then asked for a green leaf of a date-palm tree, split it into two pieces and planted one on each grave and said, “It is hoped that their punishment may be abated till those two pieces of the leaf get dried.” [Bukhari] “They will be screaming with their mouths gaping open while they devour hot coals which come out of their anuses. These are people who consumed the property of the orphans.” The life in the Barzakh is a life of bliss for the believer. The righteous shall be in graves which are like “gardens from the gardens of Paradise.” The window of Paradise shall be open to them and they will sleep till the Day of Judgment like a bride. All of this has preceded us in our article in the last issue of Azan Magazine. Here, we will mention the status of the martyr who sacrifices his life for the sake of Allah. In a Hadith, the Prophet mentioned the special status given to the martyr in the life of Barzakh: “When your brothers were killed at Uhud, Allah had their souls in the insides of green birds flying on the banks of the rivers of Paradise and eating from the fruits thereof. At night, these birds spend their evenings in lanterns hanging to the throne of Allah. When the martyrs saw the blessings they were in, they said: ‘Who would convey to our brothers that we are living in Paradise so they will not ignore Jihad and stop fighting.” Allah then revealed: “And never think of those who have been killed in the cause of Allah as dead. Rather, they are alive with their Lord, receiving provision; rejoicing in what Allah has bestowed on them of His bounty, and they receive good tidings about those after them who have not yet joined them - that there will be no fear concerning them, nor will they grieve. They receive good tidings of favor from Allah and bounty and that Allah does not allow the reward of believers to be lost.” [3:169-171] [Muslim, Abu Dawud] So, the martyrs have a special life in the Barzakh – their souls are in the bodies of green birds flying through Paradise! What a wonderful condition! But the ‘being in the bodies of green birds’ is not exclusive to the martyrs. Shaykh Ashiq Ilahi (RA) writes: “However, the souls of the martyrs are not the only ones to be embodied in green birds; souls of other believers are also embodied in green birds and go about the heaven. The Messenger of Allah said: ‘Indeed, the souls of the believers lie in the green birds which eat from the tree of the Heaven.’ [Mishkat] Mulla Ali Qari (RA) writes in his commentary on this Hadith: ‘One Hadith mentions that the souls of the believers are in the bodies of the birds, eating fruits from Paradise and drinking the water thereof, and resting in golden lamps under the throne.” All believers who are given the gift of forgiveness by Allah will be saved from the torment of the grave. This is because Allah said: “Truly those who believe, and do deeds of righteousness, and perform As-Salah (Iqamat-as- Salah), and give Zakah, they will have their reward with their Lord. On them shall be no fear, nor shall they grieve.” [2:277] And the Prophet said: “By the One in whose Hands lies my life! When the dead body is placed in the grave and people go back, he hears the sound of shoes. Hence if he is a believer, his Salah (prayers) come to his head, his Saum fasts) come to his right and Zakah to his left side, while Nafl (voluntary prayers) come from behind his legs. If the torment advances from the head-side, his Salahs block the way; when it advances from the right side, his Saum stops it; when it comes from the left side, Zakah comes in the way. And when it wants to intrude from the leg side, Nafl prayers stand in the way.” [At-Targheeb wal Tarheeb] Abu Hurayrah reported Allah’s Messenger as saying: “When a man dies, his acts come to an end except three: recurring charity, knowledge (by which people) benefit, or a pious son who prays for him (i.e. for the deceased).” [Muslim] Included in things that provide reward even after death are public welfare constructions like mosques, travel lodges, inns, canals etc. Abu Hurayrah also reported that the Messenger of Allah said: “Almighty Allah will elevate the status of Heavenly men in Paradise. He will ask with wonder: ‘O Allah! How did I get such a high status?’ Almighty Allah will say, ‘It is because of seeking forgiveness by your chidren that you got such a high status.” [Mishkat] ‘Abdullah bin Abbas reports that once a Companion of the Messenger of Allah pitched a tent at a grave without any knowledge about it. (While sitting in the tent) he found that a person was reciting Surah “Tabarak alladhi biyadihil-mulk” till he came to the end. He reported this event to the Messenger of Allah. Thereupon he said, “This Surah prevents the punishment and it was saving him from the punishment of Allah.” Khalid bin Madan (A Tabi’í) says about Surah Mulk and Surah Sajdah that these two Surahs will fight for their reciter in the grave and will say, ‘O Allah! If we belong to your Book, accept our intercession in his favour. In case we do not belong to your Book, get us obliterated. These two will spread their wings like the birds and will save him from the torment of the grave.” [Mishkat] “The martyr receives six good things from Allah: He forgives him as soon as his blood is spilled and shows him his place in the Garden; He Protects him from the punishment of the grave; He gives him security from the Greatest Terror. He places on his head a crown of dignity, a single ruby of which is more valuable than this world and all that it contains; He marries him to 72 dark-eyed Hoors, and He intercedes for seventy of his relatives.” [Tirmidhi, Ibn Majah] Abu Hurayrah narrated: The Messenger of Allah said: “The martyr feels nothing from the agony of death except like one of you would feel from a sting of an insect.” [Tirmidhi, Nasai, Ibn Majah, Bayhaqi, Ahmad, Darimi] Abu Ayyub reported that the Messenger of Allah said: “One who faces the enemy and remains stable till he either gets martyrdom or makes him subdued, he will be saved from the torment of the grave.” [Nasai, Tabrani] So, in the end, if someone comtemplates about how much detail Allah has gone into to explain the reality of the Hereafter, he will conclude that he needs to prepare for it. We ask Allah to allow us to prepare for the Hereafter and save us from the torment of the grave, and indeed all other torments to follow... In the next issue, we will In Sha Allah discuss the resurrection of the human soul for the eternal next life... Peace be upon those who follow the Guidance...