All Praise is due to Allah Alone... And may Peace and Blessings be upon Prophet Muhammad! The world media is adamant at portraying the Sunni-Shia conflict as “sectarian”; wherever skirmishes between them take place, there is talk around the world of how gaps need to be bridged between the Sunni and Shia “Muslim” communities. On the 10th of Muharram this year, in Rawalpindi Pakistan, there came yet more proof that the Shia are not in fact Muslims; rather, they are one of the most dangerous of the Kuffar who are waging a continuous, undeclared war against the real Muslims. From Syria to Iraq to Pakistan to their political stronghold (Iran), the Shias have infiltrated into key positions of the secular democratic systems – be it in the parliaments, the Civil Bureaucracies or the Militaries – and they are utilizing these positions to wage war against the Muslim populations. In one of their processions of Ashura (when they gather together to remorse for the killing of Hussain and beat their own selves) in Rawalpindi, Pakistan, the Shias gathered outside a large Islamic Institution – the Madrassah Ta’leem-ul-Quran. The Madrassah faculty told them to avoid going through the route of the Masjid during the Friday prayers – either to choose another route or to delay their procession. But the Shias, fuelled with their hatred of the Muslims, chose to go through that same route. They torched the Madrassah and set it on fire. Furthermore, they snatched rifles from the policemen and killed around 70 people – consisting of students of the Madrassah and those who had gone there to pray. The strange thing is that the Police allowed all of this to happen and did not interfere; neither did the Military, who have a Military Unit just 2 km away from the site of the incident, besides having their General Head Quarters (GHQ) in the same city. The media images show the Shia snatching guns from policemen and opening fire at the innocent Muslims. A Pakistani Politician reported that the media personnel present at the incident were confronted, and their video tapes were taken out of their cameras and destroyed to hide the terrible crimes the Shia were committing. The Madrassah administration later informed an Azan Magazine inside reporter that 70 people died in the incident whereas the whereabouts of 100 students were unknown. Local shopkeepers, even days after the incident, said that body parts were still being found as the rubble was being cleared. The Government imposed a 3-day curfew after the incident so that there would be no backlash and the local citizens would not get to the reality of what actually happened. Even the media did not report the incident adequately. The Army/Police sent the bodies of the killed to their families during the curfew. Major religious parties, however, disappointed and let down the entire, resourceful Muslim population of the country by saying that they would make “peaceful protests” and that they do not want “violence” in the country. However, local citizens voiced their anguish at the incident with a resident of a nearby area saying, “Only Taliban possess the ability to teach these Shias a lesson!” Indeed, it is only with the sword that such horrendous killings can be prevented and the only solution for all Muslims lies in the re-establishment of the just Islamic Khilafah, and the waging of Jihad against all transgressors.