The Mujahideen of Iraq have established a firm presence in the cities of Ramadi and Fallujah. The weak Shi’a government of Nuri Al-Maliki has begged the remnants of the Awakening Council to fight the Mujahideen and expel them from the cities. However, after a month of fighting the government and apostates, the Mujahideen are still in control of Fallujah and many neighbourhoods in Ramadi. The events follow a crackdown on a Sunni anti-government protest camp in late December. Following the demolition of the camp, dozens of ‘Sunni’ MP’s resigned from the parliamentary seats. If it wasn’t obvious before, it is obvious now that the Shi’a government will not accept any objection to their oppression of the Sunnis; and that the only solution is Jihad. On successive days in late December, two martyrdom operations were carried out on the transport network. More than 30 kuffar were killed altogether. The attacks were carried out by Caucasus Emirate, led by Amir Dokka Umarov. The attacks show the growing capability of the Caucasus Emirate to carry out strikes outside the North Caucasus region. The Jihad of the Caucusus has been going on for quite a long time, and In Sha Allah, the time is soon when the sacrifices shall bear fruit. On Friday, the 17th of January, Mujahideen of the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan attacked a restaurant frequented by the occupying forces. Many kuffar were killed in the attack, including staff of the UN and IMF. Amongst the killed were invaders from America, Britain, Canada, Denmark and Russia. Zabihullah Mujahid, spokesman for the Islamic Emirate said that the attack was carried out to avenge a US air strike in Parwan province that killed dozens of civilians, “These invading forces launched a brutal bombardment on civilians... and they have martyred and wounded 30 civilians. This was a revenge attack and we did it well, and we will continue to do so.” By the Grace of Allah, the Jihad of Afghanistan is maturing by leaps and bounds and under the leadership of Mulla Muhammad Umar, the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan is soon to be re-established by the Will of Allah. Our Muslim Ummah! The events in Bangladesh are a clear proof of the collusion of the western media, as well as the media in the Islamic world, with the political leadership in the West, India, and the enemies of Islam generally. Thousands of people were massacred in the streets of Bangladesh, yet no one mobilized for their plight. Instead, the media passed over the incident in a very casual manner. The Government issued a statement saying that the death toll was only around a hundred. So thousands are killed, and more continue to die, in Bangladesh, but the West is unmoved. India even expressed its pleasure over the tragedy. America and India continue to provide the corrupt Bangladeshi government with even more aid. Similarly, when more than five thousand people are killed in Egypt, and their bodies are burned in the streets, America calls for calm and reconciliation. And when millions of Muslims are killed in Afghanistan, Iraq, Palestine, Kashmir, the Philippines, Gujarat, Ahmadabad, and Somalia, the whole world is unmoved. When the people of Afghanistan, Mali, and Somalia demand freedom from foreign occupation and secular rulers and decide to implement Shariah, imposing economic sanctions becomes a ‘necessity’. They are then met with a full-edged military onslaught, in which the leading international criminals and their local surrogates take part. Their villages and homes are reduced to ruins. Their women and children are killed. In short, they are unable to establish the Shariah because they are ‘terrorists’ and ‘enemies of freedom’. But when Salman Rushdie, Tasleema Nasreen, and Ali Rajab Haider insult Islam, the Prophet of Islam, and the beliefs of Islam, they are treated as heroes who must be defended, honoured, and given awards. They even get warm receptions in the White House or Ten Downing Street! Why? Because they are icons of freedom who are defended by the West and the enemies of Islam. As for the Muslim prisoners in Guantanamo and the secret prisons of the CIA, they do not deserve freedom. They must be tortured, deprived of their rights and imprisoned without any sentence by a court for the long periods determined by the American government on its own. This is because they are not ‘humans’ in the first place for America to give them any ‘human rights’. They are not subject to those conventions by which America is bound in its treatment of the rest of humanity. This is the logic of power and arrogance. This is not about human rights; it is about the rights of the man who opposes Islam. It is about his rights when he is aggressing against a Muslim. This is the arrogant attitude of the West that the great Imam and Reviver, Shaykh Usama bin Laden (may Allah have mercy on him), fully understood. He confronted them with the logic that they understand. He confronted them with the language that convinces them: the logic of power in the face of oppression and tyranny, in the eyes of the West freedom means that you must be their slave. It means that you must be like a parrot that repeats what the West tells it to say. Freedom means that you must beg the West for its a nity and satisfaction. But if you invite people to the Unity of Allah; if you invite them to Islam, Jihad, enjoining good, forbidding evil, and establishing the rule of Shariah, you are a ‘terrorist’. The only way to solve the problem that you pose is by bombing, killing and going to war with you. It is not your right to rule by your Shariah, even if the overwhelming majority of your people support you. This is because democracy is a one-way highway that lands you in a position where you can serve the West. But if you try to use democracy to oppose the interests of the West, you are a terrorist...” 