The nations of the kuffar have gathered together in order to defeat Islam and its defenders. There is not any Muslim nation except that they have attacked it openly or covertly. However, their efforts have not come to fruition; they are losing their wars abroad and have angered their Muslim populations at home. One of the nations at the head of this war against Islam is Britain. This is a nation that has a long history of hatred towards Islam and the Muslims. In the centuries gone by, it was at the forefront of the fight against Islam and now it is America’s most loyal ally. But it has faced the consequences of its aggression. Alhamdulillah, the Muslims in Britain know where their loyalties should lie; this was shown by the spectacular martyrdom operations on 7/7/2005, when 4 Mujahideen, all who had been brought up in Britain, gave their lives in order to defend their Ummah. Their motives were clearly expressed in their videotaped statements; Muhammad Sidique Khan said: “Your democratically elected governments continuously perpetuate atrocities against my people all over the world. And your support of them makes you directly responsible, just as I am directly responsible for protecting and avenging my Muslim brothers and sisters. Until we feel security, you will be our targets and until you stop the bombing, gassing, imprisonment and torture of my people, we will not stop this fight. We are at war and I am a soldier. Now you too will taste the reality of this situation.” There have been other attacks by British born Muslims in order to avenge their Ummah. The brave Mujahidah, Roshanara Choudary, stabbed Stephen Timms, a Member of Parliament, due to him voting in favour of invading Iraq. And last May, brothers Michael Adebolajo and Michael Adebowale beheaded Lee Rigby, a British soldier who had served in Afghanistan. Michael Adebolajo said: “We swear by Almighty Allah we will never stop fighting you. The only reason we killed this man is because Muslims are dying daily. This British soldier is an eye for an eye, a tooth for tooth.” These are some of the attacks that were successful and besides these are numerous attempted attacks that were unsuccessful. So what has been the reaction of the British government towards these attacks? Any rational person would think that they would address the root cause of this issue, that being their own aggression against the Muslim Ummah. But that has not been the case; their hostility towards Islam and the Muslims is as bad as it has ever been. Instead of stopping their war against the Muslims, they in fact increased their oppressive behaviour. Soon after 9/11 they enacted new ‘anti-terrorism’ legislation which made it legal for them to imprison any non-British citizen who they merely suspected to be ‘terrorist’ and keep them in prison indefinitely without charge. After this law was passed, many Muslims were imprisoned without knowing for what reason they had been deprived of their liberty. The period they could detain a ‘terrorist’ without charge went up from 7 days, to 14 days, then 28 days and the government had asked for 90 days detention without charge, but were defeated narrowly in a parliamentary vote. Stop and search powers were also enhanced to allow police o cers to search anyone without suspicion of any criminal offence having been committed. This new draconian legislation was made specifically to target the Muslim community. They were not satisfied with the restriction of only being able to arrest non-British Muslims without evidence. So in 2005 they introduced what they termed ‘Control Orders’. With this act in place, any Muslim who the British government believe may pose a threat to them can be put under a control order. The ‘controlee’ is not told for what crime he has been punished; no evidence is needed to be brought forward against him, and his case is dealt with in a secret court in which neither he nor his lawyers may be present. So much for ‘civil liberty’ and ‘habeas corpus’! Here is a list of some of the restrictions ‘controlees’ have: Electronic GPS tagging; A daily requirement to show up at the local police station; Up to 16 hours residence curfew; The police can raid their house whenever they decide to without a warrant; Restrictions from meeting with anybody; Nobody can visit their house without home o ce approval; A geographical boundary (usually a couple of miles radius from their home); Restrictions of studying and working. In 2012, ‘control orders’ were replaced with Terrorism Prevention and Investigation Measures (TPIMs). Although the name had changed, the details of the act were virtually identical. This new legislation hasn’t helped Britain defeat the so-called ‘terrorist’ threat? In fact, the threat of attacks is more severe than ever. The kuffar do not only have to worry about Mujahideen sending cells to their lands from the arenas of jihad; they are also increasingly facing the growing threat of ‘lone Mujahid’ attacks in which Muslims living amongst them take up their responsibility of fighting the Crusader enemy individually. Those Muslims who are put on control orders/TPIMs are of 2 categories: the first being innocent Muslims unfairly oppressed and not being able to have a fair trial and the second being Mujahideen who are easily able to escape and join their respective Jihadi organisations once again. The Muslim youth in Britain have their loyalty with the Muslim Ummah and the Mujahideen. It is estimated that around 2000 Muslims are on the terrorist watch list. Hundreds of young Muslims have recently left Britain to join the Mujahideen in Syria, and many may return in order to carry out attacks. The so-called bearers of human rights have abandoned all of their principles in their fight against Islam and the Muslims. Those who turn their backs on their principles are the true losers. Their citizens are disgusted by the loss of their own civil liberties and are afraid that their nation has become a police state. This is clearly displayed in the 2012 Olympics, in which spectators were welcomed by snipers on rooftops and machine gun wielding police officers on the streets. It can be expected that the British government will carry on with its current policies. It will not abandon its neo-colonial foreign agenda in the Muslim world. This will result in continuing anger amongst the Muslim population in Britain, some of whom will take heed of the Mujahideen’s call to attack the Crusader nations in their own lands. This increasing threat will be countered by more draconian legislation by the British government; the media will continue to demonise Islam and the Muslims and far-right organisation like the EDL will be allowed to attack Muslim areas. The Muslims in Britain have tough choices to make for the future. Slowly but surely the noose is being tightened on them. They might want to live as peaceful citizens in Britain, turning a blind eye to the oppression that the nation they reside in is doing to their brothers and sisters in the Muslim world. But the truth and falsehood will always clash; the British government already attacked the Muslims who speak openly on the topic of Jihad, now they have been going after those they term ‘Islamists’. After they have dealt with them they will oppress the Muslims wholesale. Maybe the Muslims of today will escape this brutality, but it will surely come to their children’s generation. Our advice to the Muslims of Britain is that they should join the Mujahideen. They need to attack the kuffar in Britain where it hurts in order to avenge the blood of their brothers and sisters in the Muslim world. If not then they should join the Mujahideen abroad or at least make hijrah away from the enemy and move to Muslim majority countries as the Islamic revolution is spreading throughout the Muslim world.