On Friday 2 Rabī’ al-Awwal 1435AH (3 January 2014), the Syrian Sahwah was launched against the Islamic State after the leadership of the factions gathered to plot their conspiracy. “Jaysh al-Mujāhidīn” and “Jabhat Thuwwār Sūriyā” (of Jamāl Ma’rūf) made the first move and were followed systematically by the “Islamic Front” and the Jawlānī front. One of the biggest allies of the Jawlānī front since the beginning of the Sahwah has been the “Islamic Front” with Zahran Alloush as its top military commander. In Sha’bān, the crusaders of “McClatchy” interviewed Zahran Alloush in Turkey, the favored base of the Sahwah leadership. The following are excerpts from an article the interviewers wrote summarizing the interview: “Islamist rebel leader walks back rhetoric in first interview with U.S. media.” “[I]n his first interview with U.S. news media, Alloush was the model of pragmatism.” “Gone were his previous calls to expel members of the ruling Alawite sect from Damascus. In the interview he called them ‘part of the Syrian people’ and said that only those with blood on their hands should be held accountable.” “Abandoned, too, was the talk of an Islamic state. Now he said he favored allowing Syrians to decide what sort of state they wanted.” “‘We want to establish a state in which our rights are fulfilled,’ he said, denouncing what he called the ‘sectarian discrimination’ against the Sunni Muslim majority. ‘After that, the people should choose the sort of state they want.’ He said he would favor a ‘technocratic, professional government.’” “Asked by McClatchy to explain his change in stance, Alloush said his original statements were due to the pressure he lived under in Ghouta, the scene of a poison gas attack two years ago that killed hundreds.” “‘We are under siege. We all suffer psychological stress. When I was in prison and the jailer would come and torture prisoners, after he would leave, prisoners would quarrel and beat each other,’ he said.” “His spokesman, Islam Alloush, said the speeches Zahran Alloush had made in Ghouta were for internal consumption, to rally fighters in the face of other, far more radical Islamist forces, such as the Islamic State. ‘There’s speech for the internal audience and for the external audience,’ he said. ‘The internal speech is devoted to saving our sons from joining the Islamic State.’” “Has [Zahran] changed his views? ‘That is a very good question,’ said Joshua Landis, a Syria expert at the University of Oklahoma who’s written about Alloush. Alloush and his staff ‘are getting much more savvy,’ he said, based on Twitter conversations he’s had with the commander’s spokesman.” “‘Everybody is aware now that the regime is very weak and on the way to collapse,’ said Bassam Barabandi, a former Syrian diplomat who lives in Washington. ‘And every major player wants to be acceptable to the West and to the international community.’” “‘Zahran wants to be on the winning side,’ he said.” “Landis said Alloush would be there. ‘He’s going to be a winner,’ he said. Alloush’s Army of Islam and other Islamist groups, the ‘hard-bitten patriotic types … will win in the end,’ he said.” “Presenting a new face may be one reason Alloush traveled to Istanbul, where he was interviewed, and was heading next to Jordan to confer with rebel commanders who operate in southern Syria, as well as their international backers. His fighters need weapons.” “In his interview with McClatchy, he adhered to the moderate line: ‘If we succeed in toppling the regime, we will leave it to the Syrian people to choose the form of state they want,’ he said. ‘As for coexistence with minorities, this has been the situation in Syria for hundreds of years. We are not seeking to impose our power on minorities or to practice oppression against them. On the contrary, we have criticized the regime and fought it because it was practicing sectarian discrimination against the majority during the eras it ruled Syria.’” “Another aide said that Alloush, to improve his image, was ready to dispense with the black and white Islamic flag and adopt the Syrian flag used by other rebel forces.” “[Zahran] said the Army of Islam had been in direct touch with Daniel Rubinstein, the Obama administration’s special envoy for Syria, an assertion the State Department confirmed.” That ends the words of Alloush’s allies. To summarize: He believes in self-determination, a cornerstone of democracy. He believes in freedom of religion and religious coexistence, a cornerstone of secularist nationalism. And he compromises religious fundamentals, meets with Jewish leaders part of the crusade against Islam, and raises banners of secularist jāhiliyyah for the sake of obtaining aid. And yet, Alloush has been one of the top allies of “al-Qā’idah” in Syria (the Jawlānī front) – openly having praised both Jawlānī and al-Harārī (a major leader of the Jawlānī front) in interviews released officially by his “Army of Islam.” He himself has been praised by al-Harārī via internet tweets. Again, the deviance of Alloush has been something known to these jihād claimants long before this recent interview and even before the official expansion of the Islamic State to Shām, and yet the Jawlānī front supported the “Islamic Front” that Alloush led in the war against the Islamic State. This interview was followed by a declaration by the allies of the Jawlānī front condemning the Jawlānī front’s killing of more than twenty apostate Druze in the month of Sha’bān in the village of Qalb Lawzah. This was shortly after Jawlānī’s promise to not harm them during his interview with the Qatari tāghūt’s channel, “AlJazeera,” and this policy is in accordance with Dhawāhirī’s “General Guidelines for Jihādī Action.” Dhawāhirī said under the section titled “Necessary Guidelines,” “Fourthly: The deviant sects like the Rāfidah, Ismā’īliyyah, Qādiyāniyyah, and deviant Sūfiyyah, should not be fought, as long as they do not fight Ahlus-Sunnah. And if they fight Ahlus-Sunnah, then the response should be limited to those combatant parties from amongst them while explaining that we only defend ourselves. These sects’ non-combatants, the families of these sects at home, and their places of worship, celebration, and religious gatherings should not be targeted. The exposing of their falsehood and deviant creed and conduct should carry on. As for the places that fall under the control and authority of the mujāhidīn, then these sects should be treated with wisdom after da’wah, promoting awareness, exposing their doubts, enjoining good and forbidding evil in a manner that does not create a greater harm such as the expulsion of the mujāhidīn from those areas, or the revolting of the masses against them, or inciting a fitnah that the enemies exploit to occupy the region.” This ends Dhawāhirī’s words. Jawlānī said in his interview, “At this time, we do not fight those who do not fight us. Here there are Druze villages that did not support Bashar al-Asad and did not fight. They are present in the liberated areas and were not exposed to harm.” And when he was asked by the interviewer, “But you did not raid their villages, you did not destroy their homes, you did not seize their property, you did not destroy their temples, you did not do anything at all against them up until now?” He answered, “No, not at all. Not at all... As for transgressing against them, then this has never occurred.” Both of them called to the abandonment of jihād against the Druze apostates. Shaykhul-Islām Ibn Taymiyyah was asked about the ruling upon the Nusayriyyah and the Druze and answered, “The Druze and the Nusayriyyah are kuffār according to the agreement of the Muslims. It is not permissible to eat what they slaughter nor marry their women. Rather, they cannot be acknowledged with jizyah, for they are apostates from the religion of Islam, not Muslims, nor Jews, nor Christians. They do not recognize the obligation of the five daily prayers, nor the obligation of the Ramadān fast, nor the obligation of hajj, nor the prohibition of what Allah and His Messenger have prohibited of dead animals, alcohol, and so on. And if they manifest the two testimonies of faith [there is no god but Allah and Muhammad is His messenger] alongside these tenets of creed, then they are kuffār according to the agreement of the Muslims. … As for the Druze, then they are the followers of Hashtakīn ad-Darzī who was one of the followers of al-Hākim [the apostate ‘Ubaydī ruler]. Al-Hākim sent him to the people of the valley of Taymullāh Ibn Tha’labah and called them to believe in the godhood of al-Hākim. They call him ‘al-Bārī al-‘Allām’ [The Creator, the All-Knowing] and swear by him. They are from the Ismā’īliyyah who claim that Muhammad Ibn Ismā’īl abrogated the Sharī’ah of Muhammad Ibn ‘Abdillāh. They are worse in kufr than the extreme Shī’ah. They claim that the world existed eternally and deny the obligations and prohibitions of Islam. They are from the Bātinī Qarāmitah [those who claim the religion has secret meanings contradicting its apparent meanings] who are worse in kufr than the Jews, the Christians, and the pagan Arabs. They ultimately strive to be philosophers upon the doctrine of Aristotle and his likes or the Majūs. Their doctrine is a combination of the doctrines of the philosophers and the Majūs. They hypocritically manifest Shiism” [Majmū’ al-Fatāwā] He also said describing the Druze, “The kufr of these people is a matter over which the Muslims do not differ. Rather whoever doubts their kufr is a kāfir like them. They are not at the level of Ahlul-Kitāb nor the mushrikīn. Rather, they are from the most deviant kuffār, and so the meat they slaughter is not halāl. Their women can be taken as slaves and their property can be seized. They are apostate heretics whose repentance cannot be accepted. Rather they are to be killed wherever they are found and cursed as they were described. It is not permissible to use them as guards, gatekeepers, or custodians. It is obligatory to kill their scholars and religious figures so that they do not misguide others. It is prohibited to sleep at their homes, accompany them, walk with them, or follow their funeral processions if their deaths are known. It is prohibited for the Muslims’ authorities to abandon the order of Allah by not executing the hudūd upon them” [Majmū’ al-Fatāwā]. He also said describing the Bātiniyyah (which include the Druze), “If these people are overcome, they manifest repentance because the basis of their doctrine is taqiyyah and concealment of their condition. Amongst them are those who will be known and amongst them are those who might not become known. So the best way to deal with them is to be cautious concerning their matter. They should not be allowed to remain together, nor should they be allowed to carry arms, nor should they be allowed to become from the soldiers. They should be forced to abide by the laws of Islam, including the five daily prayers and recitation of the Qur’ān. There should remain amongst them those who will teach them the religion of Islam and they should be left with these teachers… And whoever is from the leaders of their deviance and manifests repentance should be expelled from their places and taken to the main lands of the Muslims where these sects have no manifest presence so that either Allah guides him or he dies upon his hypocrisy without harming the Muslims” [Majmū’ al-Fatāwā]. These are the fatāwā of Shaykhul-Islām explaining that the Druze cannot be considered ahl dhimmah, that they are worse than the Jews and Christians, and that if they repent and accept Islam then the Muslim authorities should be cautious of them due to their practice of taqiyyah and accordingly take precautionary measures in dealing with them. How much more so if they have not repented! In another fatwā in which he mentioned the extreme kufr of the Bātiniyyah (who include the Druze and the Nusayriyyah) and their treacherous alliance with other kuffār (the crusaders and the Tatars) against the Muslims, he said, “Their harm upon the Ummah of Muhammad is greater than the harm of the war-waging kuffār like the kuffār of the Tatars, the Franks [European crusaders], and others… There is no doubt that jihād against these people and the implementation of the hudūd upon them are from the greatest acts of obedience and obligations. This is better than jihād against those who do not fight the Muslims from the mushrikīn and Ahlul- Kitāb, for the jihād against these people is from the jihād against the apostates. As-Siddīq and the Companions began with the jihād against the apostates before the jihād against the kuffār from Ahlul-Kitāb. The jihād against them preserves what has been conquered from the Muslims’ lands and so no one who intends to fight against the Muslims can enter these lands. As for jihād against those who have not fought us from the mushrikīn and Ahlul-Kitāb, then it is to further manifest the religion. And preserving assets is a priority over making gains. Also, their harm on the Muslims is greater than others’ harm. Rather, their harm is like the harm of those from the mushrikīn and Ahlul-Kitāb who fight the Muslims. Rather, their harm on the religion is greater than the harm of the combatants from the mushrikīn and Ahlul-Kitāb. So it is obligatory upon every Muslim to attempt to do as much as he is able of this obligation against them. It is not permissible for anyone to hide what he knows of their secrets. Rather, he must spread them and make them public so that the Muslims know the reality of their condition. It is not permissible for anyone to cooperate with them by allowing them to remain amongst the soldiers and state employees. It is not permissible for anyone to be silent about establishing what Allah and His Messenger ordered against them. It is not permissible for anyone to forbid the establishment of what Allah and His Messenger ordered against them. This is from the greatest doors of commanding the good and forbidding the evil and jihād for the cause of Allah” [Majmū’ al-Fatāwā]. In response to the actions of the Jawlānī front towards the Druze, a number of their allies released a combined statement in condemnation of the act. Below you can read their statement: “A Statement Regarding the Painful Event that Occurred to the People of the Village of Qalb Lawzah” “Allah says in the qudsī hadith, ‘My slaves, I have prohibited oppression for you and made it illegal amongst you, so do not commit oppression.’ It was reported by Muslim.” “Our suffering nation received with great pain the news of the painful event that occurred in the liberated Idlib province towards the people of the village of Qalb Lawzah from the sons of the Druze sect for whom northern Syria testifies to their good and positive role in support of the Syrian revolution and accommodating the refugee sons of their nation from all the regions of Idlib province, those who fled their homes under pressure from the airstrikes and crimes of the Asadī regime.” “The factions who were pained by the event rushed to send an official delegation represented by their brothers in Harakat Ahrār ash-Shām al-Islāmiyyah due to its presence near the location of the event. The delegation will meet with the dignitaries of the village to investigate the incidents and provide the necessary security procedures to restore safety and stability.” “We in the military revolutionary factions share the pain and shock of our nation from what occurred. We also reaffirm the following:” “We condemn these painful events that increased our pain as we witness at the same time how our nation is bombed daily by the barrels of the criminal regime in the various parts of Syria.” “What occurred in the village of Qalb Lawzah contradicts the teachings of our pure religion that has prohibited oppression against people and the spilling of their blood without right regardless of their sect or ethnicity. We will take the necessary procedures in cooperation with the remaining sects to prevent the repetition of this event in other liberated places. We reaffirm the necessity of handing over all those involved to a neutral shar’ī court.” “We say to all the sons of our nation, we will sacrifice what we can to protect you and defend you. We do so emulating the orders of our pure religion. We say, our weapons will not be made to face anyone except those who attack with violence and commit crimes from amongst the regime, Dā’ish, and their allies against our nation.” “We call all sides to reason, prioritize the general good, and adopt the principles of our Sharī’ah and great revolution in word and deed, for the revolution is the revolution of the nation and it will continue by Allah’s permission. So whoever has not joined its blessed caravan, then the events will outpace him, and the great Syrian people will reject him.” “[Signed by:] [1] Al-Ittihād al-Islāmī li Ajnād ash-Shām – [2] Katā’ib Thuwwār ash-Shām – [3] Harakat Ahrār ash-Shām – [4] Al-Jabhah ash-Shāmiyyah – [5] Tajammu’ Fastaqim Kamā Umirt” “Friday, 25 Sha’bān 1436AH; Corresponding to: 12 June 2015CE” Hours later, the Jawlānī front released a statement echoing the sentiments of their allies. It stated the following: “A Statement Regarding What Occurred in the Village of Qalb Lawzah in the Countryside of Idlib” “All praise is due to Allah who prohibited oppression for himself and made it illegal between His slaves. May blessings and peace be upon Allah’s Messenger who said, ‘Be wary of oppression, for oppression is darkness on Resurrection Day.’ And may blessings and peace also be upon his companions and those who follow him. As for what follows:” “Jabhat an-Nusrah has received with great sorrow the news of the event that occurred in the village of Qalb Lawzah in the countryside of Idlib on Wednesday 23 Sha’bān 1436, corresponding to 10 June 2015, the event that a number of members of Jabhat an-Nusrah took part in without referring back to their leaders and clearly opposing the instructions of the leadership of Jabhat an-Nusrah. As soon as the event took place, a number of delegations left from Jabhat an-Nusrah to inquire on the event themselves and reassure the people of the village and reaffirm that what occurred was a mistake without justification and which occurred without knowledge of the leadership. The village and its people continue to be safe and secure under our protection and in the areas of our control. Everyone who was involved in the event will be brought forward to a shar’ī court and be held to account for what is verified from him of spilling blood, and this is only ruling by the Sharī’ah of our Lord for an-Nusrah was established since the beginning only to raise the banner of the Sharī’ah and implement its rulings.” “Jabhat an-Nusrah reaffirms that since the beginning of the conflict in the land of Shām it has not directed its weapons against anyone except those gangs from the criminal Nusayrī army, deviant Khawārij, and corrupt factions, who transgressed and assaulted the lives and honor of the Muslims. The enemy has testified to this before the friend, and all praise is due to Allah. We also call everyone to be accurate and examine the truth and incidents before publishing and reporting them. The doors of Jabhat an-Nusrah are open to all. These types of mistakes can occur to all the factions but it will always be buried alive young by Allah’s grace as long as all our necks are lowered to the law of Allah.” “All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the creation. {And Allah is predominant over His affair, but most of the people do not know.}” “Jabhat an-Nusrah – Al-Manārah al-Baydā’ for Islamic Media” “Date of Issue: Saturday, 26 Sha’bān 1436AH, Corresponding to: 13 June 2015” So according to the Jawlānī front and their allies, spilling the blood of the apostate and treacherous Druze is oppression! And if it is proven that a person has done so, then he must be punished according to the “sharī’ah” they follow! The only matter left is whether or not handing over those involved to the “neutral shar’ī” court of their allies is part of the “sharī’ah” and if they do not submit to this court, have they abstained from submitting to the “sharī’ah?” A month after these incidents, Labib al-Nahhas – head of foreign political relations for Ahrār ash-Shām – wrote an article for the Washington Post on “10 July 2015” titled “The Deadly Consequences of Mislabeling Syria’s Revolutionaries.” In it he said: “As has become obvious, the Obama administration’s response to the Syrian conflict is an abject failure… Short-term, stopgap measures informed by the Iraq and Afghanistan experiences, along with the noise generated by a media fixated on the Islamic State, have taken priority over achievable, long-term goals… Nowhere is this failure clearer than in the consequence of the misguided way that Syrian revolutionaries are labeled as either ‘moderate’ or ‘extremist.’” “In December, Secretary of State John F. Kerry stated that ‘Syrians should not have to choose between a tyrant and the terrorists.’ There was, Kerry declared, a third option: ‘the moderate Syrian opposition who are fighting both extremists and Assad every day.’ Unfortunately, this commendable view has broken down because the United States has defined the term ‘moderate’ in such a narrow and arbitrary fashion that it excludes the bulk of the mainstream opposition.” “The group to which I belong, Ahrar al-Sham, is one example. Our name means ‘Free Men of Syria.’ We consider ourselves a mainstream Sunni Islamic group that is led by Syrians and fights for Syrians. We are fighting for justice for the Syrian people. Yet we have been falsely accused of having organizational links to al-Qaeda and of espousing al-Qaeda’s ideology.” “Nothing could be further from the truth. We believe that Syria needs a national unifying project that cannot be controlled or delivered by a single party or group and should not be bound to a single ideology. We believe in striking a balance that respects the legitimate aspirations of the majority as well as protects minority communities and enables them to play a real and positive role in Syria’s future. We believe in a moderate future for Syria that preserves the state and institutes reforms that benefit all Syrians… Syrians consider us an integral, valued element of the revolutionary landscape, yet we have been unfairly vilified by the Obama administration from Day One.” “Stuck inside their own bubble, White House policymakers have allocated millions of U.S. taxpayer dollars to support failed CIA efforts to support so-called ‘moderate’ forces in Syria. But these ‘moderate’ groups have proved to be a disappointment on nearly every count, not least of all in confronting the Islamic State. Further, the self-defeating policy of regarding the war against the Islamic State as being fundamentally different from, and in some cases diametrically opposed to, efforts to remove Assad from power has brought no end to either battle.” “The moral case against Assad should have been enough to discount him as an option, but now the facts of war have made it clear that he is finished. The only remaining question is who will deliver the coup de grace: the Islamic State or the Syrian opposition. That question should prompt Washington to admit that the Islamic State’s extremist ideology can be defeated only through a homegrown Sunni alternative — with the term ‘moderate’ defined not by CIA handlers but by Syrians themselves.” “Despite a disappointing lack of genuine engagement from the international community, we remain committed to dialogue. The issues that need to be discussed are how to end Assad’s reign, how to defeat the Islamic State and how to ensure that a stable and representative government in Damascus puts Syria on the path to peace, reconciliation and economic recovery while avoiding the disintegration of the state. It is not too late for the United States to change course. Kerry’s ‘third option’ exists — but only if Washington is willing to open its eyes and see it.” So he disavows “al-Qaeda” and its so-called “ideology” and announces they are willing to cooperate openly now with the crusaders against the Islamic State after almost two years of indirect cooperation through their tāghūt allies. And this faction was supposedly the most “Islamic” faction according to the Jawlānī front, who themselves aided them against the Islamic State despite their extreme deviance! May Allah divide the hearts of the various factions in the Sahwah Coalition until the violence amongst them becomes extremely severe. And may Allah expose the hypocrisy, duplicity, and deviance of the jihād claimants.