Last month, the soldiers of the Khilāfah succeeded in capturing the 4th Regiment base in Wilāyat Shamāl Baghdad. The region in which the regiment base is located is considered very important as it connects together four wilāyāt. It connects Shamāl Baghdad and Salāhuddīn with al-Anbār and al-Fallūjah. The victory dealt a severe blow to the Safawī army as the capture of the region meant that the Islamic State had now cut off the main Safawī supply route from Baghdad through al-Anbār. The operation to capture the regiment base had multiple phases, including reconnaissance using both aerial drones and ground units, which succeeded in identifying important targets both inside and outside the regiment base. The operation itself began on Thursday, the 20th of Jumādā al-Ākhirah, after Fajr prayer. The soldiers of the Khilāfah prayed Fajr, placed their trust and hope in Allah, and made du’ā’ asking Him for His support and victory. and destroy the military intelligence officers’ building and ammunition storage center, which he successfully fulfilled. The battle commenced with the mujāhidīn attacking the main gate in order to pave the way for the istishhādī brothers to enter the base. This was after distracting all of the lookout posts. The gate was opened and the istishhādī brother Abū Mus’ab al-Almānī entered the base driving an explosives-laden armored military vehicle carrying 7 tons of highly explosive substances. His mission was to target and destroy the base’s command center. He entered and detonated his explosive vehicle, completely destroying the command center building. A second istishhādī brother, Abū Hamzah ash-Shāmī, then entered with an explosives-laden and armor-plated water truck carrying 8 tons of explosives. His mission was to target A third and final istishhādī attack was carried out by brother Hamzah at-Tājīkī, who entered with an explosives-laden and armor-plated water truck carrying 8 tons of explosives. His mission was to target and destroy the soldiers’ barracks. He entered the base and detonated his vehicle, completing the istishhādī phase of the assault. The battle began after Fajr prayer and lasted until about half an hour after sunset, and although crusader-coalition warplanes were involved in the battle, they had no effect in stopping the mujāhidīn. The battle ended with the regiment base completely destroyed, dozens of Safawī soldiers and officers killed, and 2 armored vehicles and 13 other various vehicles along with weapons and ammo being taken as ghanīmah. A highlight of the battle for the 4th Regiment base was the attack carried out by the first istishhādī brother, Abū Mus’ab al-Almānī, whose name would now be written – by Allah’s permission – amongst those whose past had been tainted with Muslim blood, and would atone for it by embracing Islam and fighting for the cause of Allah until they were killed. Allah’s Messenger (sallallāhu ‘alayhi wa sallam) said, “Allah laughs at two men who both enter Jannah after one of them kills the other.” He was asked, “How, O Messenger of Allah?” He said, “This one is killed, so he enters Jannah. Then Allah turns to the other one in forgiveness by guiding him to Islam. Then he fights for the cause of Allah and attains shahādah” [Reported by al-Bukhārī and Muslim]. Just a few years ago, Abū Mus’ab was serving in the German crusader army that was waging war against the Muslims in Afghanistan, and through His grace and favor, Allah chose to guide him, replace his evil with good, and make him a warrior spilling his blood for this noble cause. {And Allah guides whom He wills to a straight path} [Al-Baqarah: 213]. May Allah accept all of our brothers who were killed in this battle amongst the shuhadā’.