Praise be to Allah, and peace and blessings be upon the Messenger of Allah, and upon his family, and his companions and allies. As for what follows... The Muslims have continuously received one piece of good news after another since the announcement of the re-establishment of the blessed Islamic Khilāfah. One of the most recent pieces of good news was that the group “Ansār al-Islam in Iraq”, including both its leaders and its soldiers, has pledged allegiance to the Islamic State. The bay’ah took place on the 29th of Shawwāl, and was accompanied by the announcement that their banner would be dissolved, and that all their troops, weapons, and capabilities would be placed at the disposal of the Islamic State. This bay’ah comes at a time when the Islamic State is facing a growing list of enemies, and it further underscores the fact that the lines are being drawn and the camps of īmān and kufr are both being cleansed. This will eventually lead to a camp of kufr with no trace of īmān, and a camp of īmān with no trace of hypocrisy, as per the statement of the Prophet (sallallāhu ‘alayhi wa sallam). There will be no room to sit on the fence, and all parties will soon be forced to make a choice between the two. The soldiers of Ansār al-Islam have made their choice, and in doing so have exposed themselves to the enmity and hatred of the entire world for the sake of unifying the ranks of the mujāhidīn. We consider this a sign of their sincerity, and Allah is their judge. We ask Allah to keep them firm upon the truth. The following is an excerpt from Ansār al-Islam’s last official announcement: This bay’ah came after a number of gatherings and meetings held with the mashāyikh of the Islamic State who clarified for us the legality of the Islamic State’s mission with clear shar’ī and intellectual arguments. The last of these meetings was on the 29th of Shawwāl, in which we pledged our allegiance both individually and in groups. Prior to this, it became clear to us that the Islamic State had a presence on the ground as a state with numerous institutions that could hold its weight in the region. This is the state that defeated the crusaders, broke the strength of the safawīs, wiped out the apostate sahwāt, and rubbed the faces of the secularist Kurds in the dirt. This is the state that opened the lands of Islam, brought an end to the artificial borders between the lands of the Muslims, broke the shackles of the prisoners, and freed the lions. This is the state that established the laws of Allah, carried out the hudūd, set up the various administrative offices, and brought justice to the oppressed. This is the state that spread safety and security, and took up the responsibility of caring for the orphans and the needy. And we witnessed all this and more with our own eyes, and felt it with our own hands, so may Allah grant them the best of rewards on behalf of the Muslims.