{Indeed, those who disbelieve spend their wealth to avert [people] from the way of Allah. So they will spend it; then it will be for them a [source of ] regret; then they will be overcome} [Al-Anfāl: 36]. Despite forming a coalition of dozens of nations, allying with their longtime regional foe – Iran – whose militias refer to them as “the Great Satan,” conducting a relentless bombing campaign in Iraq and Shām, recruiting various Sahwah militias and Marxist Kurdish factions, and spending billions of dollars to wage media warfare, the crusaders could only watch helplessly as the Islamic State continued advancing in Iraq and Shām, expanding its territory both East and West. In the East, the city of ar-Ramādī – the capital of al-Anbār – was liberated by the soldiers of the Khilāfah in what amounted to a repeat of the Safawī army’s embarrassing retreat in Mosul. The residents of the city watched, and even recorded video, as Safawī convoys drove past them fleeing from the mujāhidīn’s advance. This occurred after the mujāhidīn of the Khilāfah led a fierce campaign dubbed “the Battle of Abū Muhannad as-Suwaydāwī” during which they captured a number of key areas and facilities in and around the city, including the “Anbār Provincial Council” building, the Anbār police administration building, the Anbār operations command center, the stadium area, the 8th Brigade base, and the “counterterrorism” administration, where they freed the Muslims imprisoned in the dungeons of the Safawiyyīn. It was a hard-fought victory, but the mujāhidīn spent little time celebrating, choosing instead to pursue the fleeing Safawī soldiers and their Sahwah allies, to continue their march forward towards the neighboring regions, and to prepare for the next major battle. The liberation of ar-Ramādī happened together with a major advance in the West by the armies of the Khilāfah, who were leading a renewed offensive in Wilāyat Hims. They liberated the city of as-Sukhnah and the nearby Najīb gas company, and also took control of a large part of the city of Tadmur (Palmyra). They then captured the checkpoint guarding the al-Hayl gas field on the road between as-Sukhnah and Tadmur after which they managed to take control of a large part of the gas field itself and lay siege to Nusayrī forces inside the Ārāk gas company. Just days later, the mujāhidīn took control of the Ārāk gas company after killing at least 170 Nusayrī soldiers during the course of four days of battles. These successes were topped off by another major victory yesterday as the mujāhidīn went on to completely liberate the city of Tadmur. The advances made by the Islamic State in al-Anbār and Hims, by Allah’s grace, demonstrate the mujāhidīn’s resilience towards crusader coalition airstrikes, and their determination to punish the enemies of Allah wherever they find them no matter how many obstacles they must pass through to reach them – and this without the need to declare a “storm of resolve.” The crusaders heavily underestimated the firmness and strength of the mujāhidīn, and their plans – by Allah’s permission – will soon crumble. And all praise is due to Allah by whose blessing all good is achieved.