Abū Junaydah, whose parents are from Morocco, grew up in the crusader country of Germany. Like most youth from migrant families, he was somewhat distant from his religion despite his father and mother both then being religious Muslims. And although life in dārul-kufr led many Muslim youth to abandon the daily prayers, Abū Junaydah was an exception. No matter what he faced in life, he would never forget salāh. When he was a child, his father made him memorize some of the Qur’ān and go with him to the masjid. When he grew older, he appreciated this discipline as due to it, he had learned much of the book of Allah. And so Allah guides whomever He wills and He showed His mercy towards Abū Junaydah, guiding him to serious practice at the age of eighteen. He began to learn his religion on his own effort and distance himself from all bad influences. He also married early to protect himself from the traps of zinā. Shortly after, Allah bestowed him with a daughter, whom he named Junaydah. Saddened by the events in Shām and the crimes committed against Ahlus-Sunnah, he resolved to perform hijrah there to partake in the jihād. In “2013,” he travelled to Shām and joined the faction called “Junūd ash-Shām,” led by the deviant liar Muslim ash-Shīshānī. Upon arrival, Abū Junaydah was very happy to have arrived to the lands of jihād, but he quickly found out that not every “mujāhid” and not every “jihādī” faction is on the sound manhaj. He and the other mujāhidīn were forbidden from pronouncing takfīr upon the tāghūt Erdogan and the other tawāghīt of Turkey for reasons of “maslahah.” Similarly, they were forbidden from pronouncing takfīr upon the “Free Syrian Army” (FSA). He witnessed how he himself as well as the Islamic State were strongly criticized for this. There were also many situations in which the law of Allah was violated by the local factions; the people weren’t being judged by the Sharī’ah. In one of these cases, for example, a local person insulted Allah (ta’ālā) and did not receive punishment for his crime. While he was with Junūd ash-Shām, he was joined by his best friend Abū Luqmān al-Almānī and Abū Junaydah’s cousin Abū Hafs al-Almānī in order to wage jihād against the tawāghīt everywhere and their allies. But Abū Luqmān and Abū Hafs did not stay long with Junūd ash-Shām, as they quickly recognized the corrupt and deviant manhaj of the faction and understood that they should join the Jamā’ah. Thus they both gave bay’ah to Amīrul-Mu’minīn Abū Bakr al-Husaynī al-Baghdādī (hafidhahullāh), joining the Islamic State. On the day of the Sahwah treachery, Abū Luqmān and Abū Hafs were captured by the FSA and imprisoned with hundreds of other muhājirīn. But they deceived their captors into releasing them. This led them to meet Abū Junaydah again, who had abandoned Junūd ash-Shām for the Jawlānī front shortly before the Sahwah. He began to work in the Jawlānī front’s media department. Because of Abū Sulaymān the Australian’s lies, Abū Junaydah had some misconceptions about the Islamic State, but his heart was longing to join the Jamā’ah, to be on its side while the whole world had assembled against it militarily, politically, economically, and even in the media realm. He also began catching many contradictions in the claims of Abū Sulaymān the Australian and his Sahwah comrades against the Islamic State. In addition to this, Abū Hafs – who was stuck in Halab after his release from the early Sahwah prisons – would regularly advise Abū Junaydah to join the Islamic State.