Forgive me in advance, but there are many references to myself in the following article. I dislike talking about myself, it appears arrogant, but it’s my voice and words being analyzed by journalists following the release of videos shot by the Islamic State. And to put things into perspective, I have to tell parts of my story. One observation is that the videos are scripted, and that perhaps I have no choice in the content. This is not true. The mujahidin suggest initial titles, I write the scripts, hand them over for any copy changes that need to be made and the videos are shot. It’s all very fast – the first eight videos were written, approved and filmed in just 12 days – but the mujahidin are like that. In quick, get the job done, move on to the next task. When your brain has had nothing to work on for two years except basic survival, and is suddenly put onto centre stage in front of the world’s media, it’s a shock to the system. Nothing, nothing, kablam! You’re on. I was used to working for the news before, not being the news, and it’s very different. Every word you say is examined, especially if you’re in my situation. So to really understand the content of the films, and why I say what I sometimes say, you need to appreciate the story behind the scenes. As a friend, once said to me, I am nobody going nowhere. I am just a man in a dark room with a mattress on the floor. It is clean and comfortable; for a man in my position, it is enough. Four of my cellmates have already been executed by the Islamic State in the most visceral way possible after the British and American governments apparently made a joint decision not to discuss terms for our release with our captors. And now, unless something changes very quickly and very radically, I await my turn. Such an environment forces the mind to change. I’ve had to become pretty tough inside, sometimes just to get through each day. The Sheikh who originally captured James Foley and me back in November 2012 said, “to go through this you will need a heart of stone.” And he was right. I try to stay very calm, tolerant and accepting of my situation. Muslims call it ‘Qadr Allah,’ the will of God, who determines everything in advance. I am thankful for any comfort I receive and for every plate of food I get. It hasn’t been an easy road, and some of us had a bumpy ride. Once we were finally put into general population with dozens of European prisoners, we had to watch them all go home to their loved ones while we, the British and Americans, were left behind. That was a bitter pill to swallow, but nothing compared to what came next. Now I’ve had to watch as James, Steven Sotloff, David Haines and Alan Henning walked out of the door, one every two weeks since August 18th, never to return, knowing they were going to be killed and going to their deaths. And now they’re gone, their faces and deaths plastered all over the world’s headlines, four foolish policy victims. What does that do to a man? After enduring years of pain, darkness and regret, to see it all end in such a ghastly way when everyone else went home, to see ordinary guys, family men, loving fathers killed because their governments wouldn’t negotiate because of ‘policy,’ wouldn’t even discuss options for saving them with their families – can you begin to imagine how that feels? This wasn’t a fateful soul taken at random, it was individuals missing for years in one of the most high-profile hostage crisis seen in modern history, with dozens of witnesses who had gone home testifying they were alive and could be helped. I believe even the mujahidin were genuinely surprised at how easily our countries left us for dead. We’d come all this way, putting one foot in front of the other, supporting one another when it got tough, praying together every day. We used to call it the Dead Zone when things got bad, after the area Everest climbers face above 26,000 feet as they approach the summit, when every step is agony, when they hardly have enough strength to carry on. We never gave up hope that our nations would negotiate for our release. But all that time, we never knew that the decision regarding our fate had been made months beforehand in Washington and Whitehall. We never knew that our families, for whom it was like being locked up in prison with us, were being blanked by the governments or being told there was nothing they could do. We never knew that the families were left to themselves to try anything and everything, while the men in charge folded their arms and offered their sympathies. What does that do to a man? It makes you deeply upset at such gross injustice. That’s for sure. I am not in possession of all the facts, and of course, I am biased. But how the head of state of any country could sit and watch us die here like this, then criticize their NATO partners for getting their people home seems utterly ruthless. Since when has not wanting to see your citizens executed in front of the world’s media been an act of weakness? America has paid ransoms and exchanged prisoners for hostages held by terrorist groups be- fore. Just this year there was the release of Sergeant Bowe Bergdahl in Afghanistan, who was exchanged for no less than five high-level prisoners out of Guantanamo. Britain has also paid ransoms and exchanged prisoners for hostages with known terror groups. In 1991 Terry Waite finally came home for a ransom of around $5 million, while a clandestine prisoner exchange took place with the Kosovo Liberation Army. That was in 1994, I believe. But not us. Somehow we slipped through every safety net, every policy change, and ended up on the floor of what will surely go down as one of the worst hostage disasters of recent times. Yes, America tried to ‘rescue’ us, but instead of spending all those millions of dollars sending ninja comman- dos in stealth helicopters and risking countless more lives like it was some Hollywood action movie, wouldn’t it have been safer and wiser to have just discussed options for prisoner exchange in the first place? Even if nothing could have been agreed, surely it was worth discussing with the Islamic State. What possible harm could come from negotiations? I will never understand why we were deemed so expendable, but that doesn’t really matter now. To watch your friends die the way they did when there seemed so much that could have been done to prevent it at a political level has been extremely difficult. I expected the hardest knocks to come from inside these prison walls, not outside, and it’s almost torn me in two. Britain is a small country, an island nation with old traditions that used to mean something. Now? I don’t know. It’s not until you get into a situation as extreme as this that you start to doubt everything you thought you ever knew. Here in prison, we’d lived inside an absolute vacuum for two years. Of the outside world, I knew nothing. The most complicated piece of apparatus I’d handled was occasionally opening a can of processed meat; now there’s something called an iWatch. Then we started work on these videos and as part of the research process, I was allowed to read news downloads on the impending war in Iraq and Syria, and on our particular situation. And the more I read, the deeper it cut. I was so devastated to read about the lack of support for the families involved in our case that I wanted to make my voice heard on the matter. “We had to find a way through this on our own,” Diane Foley told reporters. Having watched Obama’s address to the nation on September 10th, I was appalled at the way the names of my dead friends were used to beat the drums of war, like they were being used to incite the public into supporting military action. I watched Steven’s mother making a televised plea to the Islamic State to spare her son after her government declined to discuss anything with her, and read how Diane Foley was threatened with ‘funding terrorism’ charges as she tried to raise a ransom. I read emails from the mothers who’d sent letters to the President begging for help, and another where they’d directly contacted the family of one of the Muslim prisoners wanted in exchange for us to see if there was anything, anything they could do. I learned about the failed rescue attempt, how our chances of survival were rated as so low that it was considered the best option. “The intelligence was a bit stale, but you couldn’t not give it a swing,” said a spokesman. It was as if our lives and the lives of our families were just a game of baseball. And here’s the thing: if our countries had just talked to the mujahidin, our chances of survival wouldn’t have been low at all. The pain and indignation of learning all of this was indescribable. Everything we’d based our belief on had been an illusion. It was within this context that the videos were filmed, and I used my voice to speak out against what I had seen. I was startled at what I’d learned, deeply hurt and realized I was desperately naïve. That we’d all been. I knew we were not important people, not special in any way. We’d found ourselves into a real bad spot and desperately needed help but I couldn’t grasp how we were just considered an irritant to two of the most influential countries in the world, when all the European leaders engaged in discussions that ensured the safe return home of their people. Having chosen not to negotiate, our politicians must have known we’d be executed, yet it was decided that if the rescue didn’t work (and they’re always a last-gasp option) then that was okay. Better we were beheaded one by one than talk to our captors. If that is policy, it’s insanity. I never told the others what I’d learned while they were still alive. I’d been moved to my small cell and had chosen to stay, so couldn’t talk to them anyway. I find the close confines of the walls stop my mind wandering too far and I can focus more, keep myself in check in my solitude. It was probably better the others didn’t know. Such a litany of anguish would only have filled them with fear and anger. The mujahidin have kindly given me a voice the others never had. I don’t know why I deserved such a privilege, but I’d use that voice to say this: Please don’t allow these deaths to fade quietly into the night – there is more to this than meets the eye. The public have no appetite for consecutive beheadings of their countrymen in 2014, so why was this allowed to happen? The Islamic State is not some bunch of guerillas or gangsters. They have 32,000 fighters, tanks, missile system, law courts, a police force and they control the second largest city in Iraq. Surely they must be considered large enough and serious enough for any politician to deal with. To my darling wife, my friends in the media and my family: let our political leaders know it doesn’t have to be this way. Our political leaders have the power, if they choose to change things. For now, I am still alive, but at some point in the near future, the mujahidin will surely run out of patience. Just ask our government to talk. That’s all. Open a channel and negotiate with the Islamic State like the others did. If nothing is possible to agree on, then fine, but it cannot compromise policy to open a dialogue. Death holds no fear over me; I have lived beneath its wings for a long time. But if that is to be my final destination, I would rather look it in the face knowing this was a fair fight and not a hollow capitulation.