On the 16th of Jumādā al-Ūlā the mujāhid Shaykh Abū Bakr Shekau (hafidhahullāh), leader of Jamā’at Ahlis-Sunnah lid-Da’wah wal-Jihād in West Africa, announced his group’s bay’ah to Amīrul-Mu’minīn Ibrāhīm Ibn ‘Awwād al-Qurashī. The bay’ah, which came on the heels of a widely successful campaign being waged by the mujāhidīn across Nigeria and into neighboring regions, was a tremendous cause of celebration for the Muslims and yet another source of gloom for the kuffār. The hearts of the Muslims were healed as they saw their brothers in West Africa terrorizing the Christians and the Nigerian army of murtaddīn, many of whom were forced to flee in disgrace and seek refuge in Chad. The kāfir media, meanwhile, having anticipated the unity of the West African mujāhidīn with the Islamic State, lamented the fact that such a relentless and aggressive force with a considerable level of consolidation, had resolved to take up the banner of the Khilāfah in the war against the crusaders and apostates. For years, the mujāhidīn of West Africa stood firm against the apostate and crusader forces who were attempting to wipe out any traces of Islam in the region. They stood firm in the face of slander and opposition by the evil scholars and other hypocrites. They stood firm when their leader, the mujāhid Shaykh Muhammad Yūsuf (rahimahullāh), was executed by the apostate Nigerian police. They did not fear the blame of any critics when they captured and enslaved hundreds of Christian girls, even as the crusader media machine put the brunt of its strength into focusing the world’s attention on the issue. They stood firm, so Allah increased their strength, hastened their victory, granted them consolidation, and humiliated their enemies. {Is the reward for good [anything] but good?} [Ar-Rahmān: 60]. And what was their response to the favors and blessings of Allah? They showed their gratitude to Him through a deed even greater than those that they had already accomplished; they closed ranks with their brothers in the Islamic State, uniting upon the truth, pledging to listen to and obey Amīrul-Mu’minīn and to continue upon the path to raise high the word of Allah. Their bay’ah was acknowledged by the Islamic State, and the mujāhidīn of West Africa now guard yet another frontier of the Khilāfah. The Islamic State’s spokesman, Shaykh Abū Muhammad al-‘Adnānī (hafidhahullāh), said, “And we bring you the good news today of the Khilāfah’s expansion to West Africa, for the Khalīfah (hafidhahullāh) has accepted the pledge of allegiance made by our brothers in Jamā’at Ahlis-Sunnah lid-Da’wah wal-Jihād. We congratulate the Muslims and our mujāhid brothers in West Africa on their pledge of allegiance, and we congratulate them on joining the caravan of the Khilāfah. So rejoice, O Muslims, for this is a new door that Allah, the Mighty and Majestic, has opened so that you may migrate to the land of Islam and so that you may wage jihād. So whoever is stopped by the disbelieving rulers, and prevented from emigrating to Iraq, Shām, Yemen, the Arabian Peninsula, or Khurāsān, will not be prevented – by Allah’s permission – from emigrating to Africa. So come, O Muslims, to your State, for we call on you to mobilize for jihād and incite you and invite you to emigrate to your brothers in West Africa. And we specifically call upon the students of Islamic knowledge and the callers to Islam. Come forth, O Muslims, to the land of the Caliphate” [So They Kill and Are Killed]. Following the announcement of the bay’ah, and its acceptance by the Islamic State, the Muslims in the various regions of the Khilāfah took to the streets in celebration, for nothing brings greater joy to the believers than to see their brothers unite with them under one banner and one imām, pledging to wage war against kufr until the religion is entirely for Allah. The condition of the mujāhidīn in West Africa was a condition of unity upon tawhīd, which saw them rallying behind one leader from amongst them to wage war against kufr and implement the Sharī’ah in their land. So when they saw the Muslims, and especially the mujāhidīn around the world, uniting behind the Khalīfah to raise high the word of Allah they did likewise, not for wealth, fame, or power, but for something much greater. Echoing the words of the mujāhidīn of Libya, they said, “We pledged allegiance because the goodness of this Ummah, concerning both its religious and worldly affairs, will not be achieved except with a leader who governs the people by Allah’s law, forces the violators back to the truth, and wages war against those who are obstinately resistant and against those who obstruct the people from the religion of Allah. This is the foundation of the religion – a book that guides and a sword that aids. {And sufficient is your Lord as a guide and a helper} [Al-Furqān: 31].” The mujāhidīn in West Africa continue to wage jihād against the enemies of Allah in a land that contains a large population of hostile crusaders. The Christian masses in Nigeria, mostly contained in the southern portion of the country and comprising less than half of the population, have not shied away from massacring the Muslims of West Africa. Despite crusader hostility, however, the mujāhidīn carried the banner of tawhīd, calling to the truth, clashing with the people of falsehood, and exacting revenge on the crusaders and apostates, until Allah’s decree came and the mujāhidīn were granted authority in the land. They implemented His Sharī’ah, established the prayer, commanded the good, and forbade the evil. {[And they are] those who, if We give them authority in the land, establish prayer and give zakāh and enjoin what is right and forbid what is wrong} [Al-Hajj: 41]. They continue upon this path today under the banner of the Khilāfah, even as the forces of kufr redouble their efforts to stop their advance across West Africa, for no sooner had they declared their bay’ah than they were faced with a combined and aggressive air and ground offensive launched by the murtadd forces of Chad and Niger. This is in addition to the troops recently deployed from Cameroon, as well as mercenaries, and even the French crusaders based in Chad, all attempting to stop the mujāhidīn’s liberation of West Africa. We ask Allah to keep their feet firm against those seeking to uproot His Sharī’ah.