The Islamic State provides the Muslims with extensive healthcare by running a host of medical facilities including hospitals and clinics in all major cities through which it is offering a wide range of medical services, from various types of complicated surgery to simpler services such as hijāmah. This infrastructure is aided by a widespread network of pharmacies run by qualified pharmacists and managed under the supervision and control of the Health Dīwān. Just as the medical staff in the hospitals and clinics are made up of qualified, trained professionals, the pharmacies are likewise only run by qualified and certified pharmacists. In order to ensure a steady supply of qualified medical personnel in the future as well as expanding and enhancing the current medical services from a professional as well as Islamic point of view, the Islamic State recently opened the Medical College in ar-Raqqah as well as the College for Medical Studies in Mosul. To achieve the stated aims, a new 3-year/6- semester curriculum was developed by senior medical experts. It consists of both intensive theoretical study in the first year with a gradual introduction to practical work under tutelage in the second and third years. This new practice-oriented curriculum is in stark contrast to previous curriculums that would include tāghūt-sponsored pseudo-sciences such as “culture” (i.e. secular nationalism) or superfluous subjects that are irrelevant to a physician’s day-to-day work. The new curriculum covers specialties such as general surgery, fracture and orthopedic surgery, trauma surgery, gynecology and obstetrics, cardiology, pediatric and medical emergency, ophthalmology, urinary surgery, neurosurgery, thoracic surgery and vascular surgery. The teaching staff consists exclusively of degree holders. Entrance is open to both females and males, with a dedicated school building, hospital, and female teaching staff for the female students. To support the students in their efforts the Islamic State does not charge any fees and provides the students with all that is necessary in terms of food, clothing, housing, transport, and books. For further encouragement high-achievers are granted rewards. A senior medical worker in the Health Dīwān in ar-Raqqah explained to Dābiq that the Medical College attracted more than 300 applicants, of which 100 were accepted, half of whom were muhājirīn. He also mentioned that the student body is highly motivated and achieved good results in the first months, but that the staff wishes for support from additional teachers, preferably muhājirīn with experience in the medical field. He also indicated that a practical laboratory will soon be opened for the students. This should be received as a wake-up call for the many Muslim students in the lands of kufr who claim to study medicine to “benefit and support the Muslim Ummah,” but then remain in those lands, chasing after worldly pleasures instead of performing hijrah to the Islamic State – and this despite hijrah being an undeniable Islamic obligation, in addition to the fact that hijrah was and still is relatively easy. The Islamic State offers everything that you need to live and work here, so what are you waiting for?