All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the worlds. May blessings and peace be upon His messenger, Muhammad, and upon his family and companions. As to what follows: History repeats itself by Allah’s divine decree. This is the sunnah (established way) of Allah in His creation. {This is the sunnah of Allah with those who passed on before; and you will not find in the way of Allah any change} [Al-Ahzāb: 62]. {This is the sunnah of Allah which has occurred before. And never will you find in the way of Allah any change.} [Al-Fath: 23]. There is no escape from this divine decree. It must happen and it certainly will. Since the collapse of the mushrikīn in Arabia, Persia, and India at the hands of the Sahābah and the Tābi’īn, the bulk of all jihād was against the cross-worshipping Romans with Shām playing an important role in all the wars between the Muslims and crusaders. And this will be the case until their tāghūt cross is broken by the Masīh ‘Īsa (‘alayhis-salām). As this final crusade carries on and prior to its short pause followed by crusader treachery (whenever that occurs), it is important to reflect over a number of matters. We ask Allah to make us from the people of vision, not from a deaf, dumb, and blind people who do not understand. Abū Hurayrah reported that Allah’s Messenger (sallallāhu ‘alayhi wa sallam) said, “The Hour will not be established until the Romans land at al-A’māq or Dābiq (two places near each other in the northern countryside of Halab). Then an army from Madīnah of the best people on the earth at that time will leave for them. When they line up in ranks the Romans will say, ‘Leave us and those who were enslaved from amongst us so we can fight them.’ The Muslims will say, ‘Nay, by Allah, we will not abandon our brothers to you.’ So they will fight them. Then one third of them will flee; Allah will never forgive them. One third of them will be killed; they will be the best martyrs with Allah. And one third will conquer them; they will never be afflicted with fitnah. Then they will conquer Constantinople. While they are dividing the war booty, having hung their swords on olive trees, Shaytān will shout, ‘The [false] Messiah has followed after your families [who were left behind.]’ So they will leave [for their families], but Shaytān’s claim is false. When they arrive to Shām he comes out. Then when they are preparing for battle and filing their ranks, the prayer is called. So ‘Īsā Ibn Maryam (sallallāhu ‘alayhi wa sallam) will descend and lead them. When the enemy of Allah sees him, he will melt as salt melts in water. If he were to leave him he would melt until he perished, but he kills him with his own hand, and then shows them his blood upon his spear” [Sahīh Muslim]. Allah’s Messenger (sallallāhu ‘alayhi wa sallam) said, “You will have a treaty of security with the Romans until you both fight an enemy beyond them. And you will be victorious, you will gain war booty, and you will achieve such without losses. Thereafter you will return until you lodge at a pastureland full of rocky mounds. A man from the Roman Christians will then raise the cross. He will say, ‘The cross has prevailed!’ A man from the Muslims will then say, ‘Rather Allah has prevailed,’ and then he will angrily rise and crush the cross, which is not at a distance from him. Then the Romans will betray the treaty by rising against the breaker of the cross and striking his neck. The Muslims will then rise and rush to their arms. They will then battle. Allah will bless this party of Muslims with shahādah. The Romans will say to the Roman leader, ‘We are sufficient for you against the Arabs.’ They will then gather for the Malhamah (the grand battle before the Hour). They will come for you under eighty banners, with each banner there will be twelve thousand people” [Sahīh – reported by Imām Ahmad, Abū Dāwūd, Ibn Mājah, Ibn Hibbān, and al-Hākim on the authority of Dhī Mikhmar]. ‘Abdullāh Ibn Mas’ūd (radiyallāhu ‘anh) said, “The Last Hour will not come until the people stop dividing inheritance and rejoicing over booty.” Then he said, while pointing towards Shām, “An enemy shall muster strength against the Muslims and the Muslims will muster strength against them.” Yusayr Ibn Jābir asked him, “You mean the Romans?” He said, “Yes, and there will be a great raddah (fleeing) and the Muslims will prepare a detachment for fighting unto death so that they may not return but victorious. They will fight until night will intervene between them; both sides will return without being victorious and the detachment will be wiped out. The Muslims will again prepare a detachment for fighting unto death so that they may not return but victorious. They will fight until night comes upon them; both sides will return without being victorious and the detachment will be wiped out. When it is the fourth day, a new detachment from the remnant of the Muslims will be prepared and Allah will decree that the enemy would be routed. And they will fight such a fight the like of which will not be seen (or which has not been seen), so much so that even if a bird were to pass their flanks, it would fall down dead before reaching the end of them. (After the battle), when relatives count each other, they will find that after being one hundred, only one man is left from them. So what can be the joy at the spoils of such war and what inheritance can be divided! While they are in this very state, they will hear of a calamity more horrible than this. And a cry will reach them, ‘The Dajjāl has taken your place among your families.’ They will, therefore, throw away what is in their hands and go forward sending ten horsemen as a scouting party. Allah’s Messenger (sallallāhu ‘alayhi wa sallam) said, ‘I know their names and the names of their fathers and the color of their horses. They will be the best horsemen on the surface of the earth on that day or amongst the best horsemen on the surface of the earth on that day’” [Sahīh Muslim]. These ahādīth indicate that the Muslims will be at war with the Roman Christians. Rome in the Arabic tongue of the Prophet (sallallāhu ‘alayhi wa sallam) refers to the Christians of Europe and their colonies in Shām prior to the conquering of Shām at the hands of the Sahābah. There will be a pause in this war due to a truce or treaty. During this time, the Muslims and Romans will fight a common enemy. The fact that they fight a common enemy does not necessitate there is any form of military cooperation between them, as some of the hadīth commentators have said, “Or [it means] you fight your enemy on your own while they fight their [same] enemy on their own” [Hāshiyat as-Sindī ‘Alā Sunan Ibn Mājah]. This is closer to the teachings of the Prophet (sallallāhu ‘alayhi wa sallam), who said, “I will not seek the aid of a mushrik” [Sahīh Muslim]. In another wording, he (sallallāhu ‘alayhi wa sallam) said, “We do not seek the aid of a mushrik” [Imām Ahmad and Ibn Hibbān]. He (sallallāhu ‘alayhi wa sallam) also said, “We do not seek the aid of the mushrikīn against the mushrikīn” [Hasan: reported by Imām Ahmad, al-Hākim, and others]. Then the Romans will commit treachery by raising the cross and killing a Muslim. This will lead to the continuation of the war between the Muslims and the Romans. They will demand access to those who enslaved some of them or the former captives themselves who accepted Islam so as to fight them. This enslavement will have taken place either before the signing of the truce or after the treachery, and Allah knows best. These events all lead up to the final, greatest, and bloodiest battle – al-Malhamah al- Kubrā – between the Muslims and the Romans prior to the appearance of the Dajjāl and the descent of al-Masīh. This battle ends the era of the Roman Christians, as the Muslims will then advance upon Constantinople and thereafter Rome, to conquer the two cities and raise the flag of the Khilāfah over them.