The Islamic ummah is vast and so are the arenas in which targets and interests of the invader enemy are present. It is furthermore impossible for all the youth who want to participate in the Resistance to travel to the arenas of [open] confrontation. It is even unlikely that such Fronts should emerge in the foreseeable future. Hence, our method should therefore be to guide the Muslim who wants to participate and resist, to operate where he is, or where he is able to be present in a natural way. We should advise him to pursue his everyday life in a natural way, and to pursue jihad and Resistance in secrecy and alone, or with a small cell of trustworthy people, who form an independent unit for Resistance and for the individual jihad. Regarding the priority of arenas in which we must strike the enemy, the list of priority arenas is as follows: Wherever you hurt the enemy the most and inflict upon him the heaviest losses. Wherever you arouse Muslims the most and awaken the spirit of jihad and Resistance in them. Thus, the list of arenas, arranged according to their importance, is as follows: The countries on the Arabian Peninsula, the Levant, Egypt and Iraq: This area contains the holy places, the oil, Israel, the countries encircling her, and the American military and economic presence, and it is the fundamental and final site for the victorious group (al-ţâ’ifah al-man Şûrah) for all time to come. The countries of North Africa from Libya to Mauritania: There are Western interests in this region, especially those of the main European countries allied with America in the NATO. Turkey, Pakistan, and the countries HISTORY & STRATEGY of Central Asia: They contain the second largest oil reserves in the world, and America’s strategic interests, military bases, and main economic investments. They have large and historical Islamic movements, which are regarded as being a strategic depth for the Arab jihadi and Resistance movements. The rest of the Islamic world: The Americans and their allies have interests and a presence in this region. The Islamic world as a whole contains the main backbone of the Resistance, which is the Islamic Nation’s youth sympathizing with its causes and wishing to participate in the jihad and the Resistance. It is a backbone consisting of hundreds of millions of Muslims. The American and allied interests in the third world countries: Especially in those countries participating in the Crusader campaign. This is due to their weak security capabilities, compared with the security regulations that the Western countries implement in their own countries. Jihad in these countries rests fundamentally on the shoulders of the mujahidun who basically reside in those countries, and live a normal life there. This helps them in moving, hiding, gaining knowledge of the targets and dealing with them in an easy manner. In European countries allied with America and participating with her in the war: This is due to the presence of old and large Islamic communities in Europe. Their number exceeds 45 million, and there are communities of millions in Australia, Canada and South America as well. Especially in Europe, because of its closeness to the Arab and Islamic world, and the inter- twining of interests between them, and because of all the movement and transportation between the two. The Muslims in those countries are like Muslims everywhere; the religious duty of jihad, of repelling the enemy and resisting him, rests on their shoulders in exactly the same way as for Muslims in their own countries [i.e., Muslims residing in the Arab and Islamic world]. Action in Europe and those countries must be subjected to the rules of political benefits versus political harms, judged against the positions of the European governments. At the same time, one has to adopt a strategy of winning the support of the people, and avoid harming them. I will present this in detail in the political theory of the Resistance, Allah willing. In the heart of America herself, by targeting her with effective strategic operations, as will be explained in the following paragraphs, Allah willing: She [America] is the snake’s head, as Shaykh Usama rightfully named her. And she is the origin of scourge and the head of the alliance. When defeated, this alliance will break up, and we will move to a new historical era, Allah willing.