Praise be to the One who said: ﴾And do not may peace and blessings be upon His Messenger say about those who are killed in the way of Allah, "They are dead." Rather, they are alive, but you perceive [it] not﴿ [2: 154]. And who said: “In the name of whom the soul of Muhammad is in His hands, I wish I could fight in the path of Allah and then be killed and then fight and be killed and then fight and be killed.” Today we say our farewells to Abu Ayman al-Masri, Bakr bin Sa`eed Muhammad Numaan, a hero of our ummah and one of its knights, who passed away in the land of Aden-Abyan. A man who has stood against the tyrants of the Arabian Peninsula and whom the apostate media has announced his death several times after every failed operation led by their armies, and yet Allah would protect his servant Abu Ayman and expose the lies of the government media. But now Abu Ayman had an appointment with martyrdom, a status that he'd strive to reach for a long time. Abu Ayman was one of the members of the Jihad Movement in the city of Bani Suwaif in Egypt. He left Egypt to flee the persecution of the tyrant Hosni Mubarak spending some time in Sudan and Jordan before settling in Yemen where he worked with his brothers including Abu al-Hassan al-Mihdar, may Allah have mercy upon him. He stayed in Marib, in Husun Âl Jalâl and was a companion of Shaykh Abu Ali al-Harithi, may Allah have mercy on him. He was with Abu Ali when the military sent forces from the Republican Guard to Marib in order to capture the mujahidin. The Republican Guard forces were defeated and their commander was killed and a few of their armored vehicles were destroyed. Then he and Abu Ali al-Harithi moved to al-Jawf. During a trip with Shaykh Abu Ali between Marib and Shabwa, a U.S. drone fired a missile on the vehicle killing Abu Ali and some of his brothers. Abu Ayman and a few other brothers were not harmed as they were in another vehicle. In the following stage of the jihad of Abu Ayman, he helped with the travel arrangements for those brothers that wanted to join the mujahidin in Afghanistan, Iraq, Somalia, and Algeria. When the twenty three brothers broke out of the Political Security Prison in Sana'a, he hosted a group of them in his house becoming a muhâjir and an anşârî at the same time. Abu Ayman carried upon his shoulders the effort to re-establish the al Qaeda organization. He took advantage of the escape of the brothers from prison to contact the brothers that he knew and in doing so, he visited me to ask if I would join hands and help the brothers who left jail and who were going through difficult circumstances and were being continuously pursued by the security forces. Allah made it possible for me to meet brother Abu Ayman again in his house. At that time Shaykh Abu Basir, Abu Hurairah and Gharib al-Taizi were staying with him and we began the necessary arrangements for the establishment of al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula. Abu Ayman was a generous brother with an outstanding character. He was in the service of his brothers. He was forgiving and would not turn down a request from any of his brothers. He was like a father for them and would always guide and provide them with advice. He was courageous and was known for asking his brothers to allow him to per form a martyrdom operation. That was his love for Allah and his desire to fight the enemies of Allah. His opinion was invaluable to his brothers. Through his efforts, he brought the brothers together under the leadership of Abu Basir in an effort to bring an end to disunity. He lived off of a farm where he worked hard to support his family. In the first days of the work, he would even support his brothers. I have seen from this brother something that I would rarely find in anyone else. He would leave his house for his brothers to stay in to protect them, and he and his family would sleep in the yard regardless of the hot weather or sand storms. He did this for months even though he had young kids and Shaykh Abu Basir, Abu Hurairah, Gharib and myself would stay indoors. His house not only hosted us but before us was the place where Shaykh Abu Ali and Hamza al-Qiyadi, may Allah have mercy upon them, would stay. He would sacrifice anything for the sake his brothers. Since he was organizing the communications for the mujahidin, news reached us that his house would be bombed to get rid of him. We had to leave his house and he left with us to arrange for a new place to stay. Abu Ayman had a wide circle of acquaintances with many Yemeni tribes and was very much liked by them. He used to deal with them with their own customs and spoke their dialects. He was kind towards his neighbors. When the news of his martyrdom reached them he was mourned by their men, women and children. He participated in many operations against the apostates and crusaders. He was part of the USS Cole and Lindberg operations and was the Amir of the battle of Marib. His participation was present in many other operations. He was also one of the commanders in Abyan. When the brothers succeeded in taking Zinjibar, the capital of Abyan, they laid siege to the “Gulf 20” soccer stadium and succeeded in taking it after clearing the forces based in it. The stadium was taken in order to complete the siege of the 25th Mechanized battalion which is a main battalion of the Yemeni army. This is when forces came together to prevent the fall of Aden from the hands of the mujahidin. The mujahidin brothers succeeded in turning back five attacks by the army, killing many soldiers in the process and taking huge caches of booty. The support of Allah for the mujahidin was clear. During one attack, six mujahidin armed only with their AK-47s succeeded in disabling 2 tanks and a few vehicles and single-handedly turned back the military convey after Allah struck fear into their hearts. The soldiers fled the battleground leaving their weapons behind them. Allah says: ﴾You did not kill them but it was Allah who killed them﴿ [8: 17]. And Allah says: ﴾And how many of a small band defeated a large band by the will of Allah﴿ [2: 249]. And Allah says: ﴾If Allah grants you victory no one can defeat you﴿ [3: 160]. Allah is with His mujahidin servants: ﴾And those who strive in Us, We will guide them to our paths and Allah is with the good doers﴿ [29: 69]. I met Abu Ayman in the front line of Dawfas in Abyan and spent a few days with him. He was disheveled and covered in dust. He would take shade under thorny trees in the very hot summer of the Yemeni coast. He would plan with his brothers and organize his soldiers. I found him teaching the brothers how to use the artillery guns that were taken as booty from the army. He was continuously moving from place to place and whenever I would head somewhere I would find him ahead of me. Even though he was gentle and kind, in the battlefield he was strict and firm. In his home I knew him to be very kind and humble and in the service of his brothers, and I saw him in the battlefield as a lion of courage with a presence that radiates steadfastness in whoever is around him. An American-Saudi-Yemeni coalition force launched a land, air and sea attack in which Abu Ayman fought them courageously. I met with Shaykh Ibrahim al-Rubaish and he told me that he met Abu Ayman two hours before his martyrdom. Abu Ayman was smiling and he asked some brothers to join him in going to the front line. One of the brothers had a white T-shirt on so Abu Ayman told him to stay back because the color of his T-shirt would stand out and give away their location. Instead of staying back, the brother took off his T-shirt and joined. In the battle, Abu Ayman was struck by machine gun fire from a helicopter. May Allah shower him with His mercy and grant him paradise. Abu Ayman was a shûrâ' member of the al Qaeda Organization in the Arabian Peninsula. He was one of those brothers who were carrying the organization on their shoulders with patience and sincerity. We miss you O Abu Ayman and we only say what pleases Allah. We all belong to Allah and we will all return to Him. We witness that you have fulfilled your duty so sleep comfortably until we meet in Paradise by the will of Allah. May peace be upon your soul amongst the eternal!