May Allah's mercy overshadow you O Aaidh! You have proven to the mujahidin your allegiance and love for Islam. May Allah be pleased with you! You have confirmed the path of the Prophets through your actions and were willing to die upon that when the armies of godlessness and despotism were in pursuit of you. He was Aaidh Saleh Muhammad Jabir al-`Abeedi from Ma'rib. His house was where the famous battle of Ma'rib took place in which many tanks surrounded it and a countless number of apostate soldiers bombarded it. With the help of Allah alone and trust in Him, Aaidh and seven other brothers disfigured their ranks, bringing devastation to the army of apostasy. Aaidh quickly became one of the most wanted mujahidin in Yemen due to his harboring of the people of paradise in Ma'rib. Because of people like him, al Qaeda in Yemen Aaidh singing a nashîd with Fawaz on a mujahid's wedding took off with great force and speed. Aaidh was always found doing either of two things: conversing with his brothers or remembering Allah. He lived such a simple life and dedicated it wholly to Allah, The Exalted. He, may Allah have mercy upon him, took part in many battles and fought ferociously despite having a limping problem in his right leg. He always maintained a positive attitude with it and never expressed any dissatisfaction. In battle, no matter the conditions, he never tired and was always able to adapt to his circumstances. His patience was meritorious for he was able to fight in battles for very long periods of time. When I first came to Yemen, the brothers would relate to me stories of Aaidh and the miraculous battle of Ma'rib. He was a brother I yearned to meet. One time while sitting with a few mujahidin and discussing some issues, a brother came and sat before me. I never met him before. He was small in stature but great in akhlâq. He was always smiling and continously welcomed me to Yemen. After an hour or so, one of the brothers turned to me and asked, "Do you know who this brother is?" I looked at him and said, "No, I don't have a clue." All of the brothers laughed. "This is Aaidh al-Shabwani." My mouth dropped and I was in shock. One of the most dangerous and important figures of the jihad in Yemen was sitting right before me, smiling humbly. I didn't know what to say except to thank him for his efforts of supporting the mujahidin. He was always on the frontlines during the battle for Abyan. He was martyred when a military helicopter belonging to the army of al-Aswad al-Ansi rained bullets of infidelity upon him and his brothers, killing him instantly. Aaidh was loved greatly by the brothers and losing him was like losing a family member. We ask Allah to accept him.