Inspire magazine has announced that it would be holding a video session with myself to answer the questions we receive from our readers. The most frequently asked question was about the legality of targeting non-combatants in countries that are at war with the Muslims. This issue is surrounded with confusion and because of its importance and relevance to today's jihad, I would devote this article to answering it based on the evidence from Qur’an and Ĥadîth as well as the actual practices of the Messenger of Allah, his companions and the consecutive generations of the mujahidin. We will also look into the realities of today's jihad and what methods of war are needed for its success (fiqh al-wâqi`). This is the summary of the fiqh of the issue at hand: The scholars have divided the people of dâr al-ĥarb into combatants and non-combatants. The scholars agree that all combatants may be targeted. With the category of non-combatants it is more complex. Scholars agree that women and children should not be intentionally targeted. The scholars differed however on the ruling concerning the elderly, farmers, merchants and slaves. But they all agree that if women, the elderly, farmers, merchants or slaves participate in the war effort against Muslims either by actual participation in fighting, financial contribution or opinion, they become legitimate targets. If combatants and non-combatants are mixed together and integrated, it is allowed for the Muslims to attack them even if women, children, the elderly, farmers, merchants and slaves get killed but this should only be done with the intention of fighting the combatants. If Muslims kill non-combatants in fighting there is no liability on the Muslims. There is no retribution, no blood money to be paid and there is no sin on the Muslims in the eyes of Allah. If Muslims get killed unintentionally or by mistake during the fight with the disbelievers, there is no sin on the Muslim who killed him but there is a kaffârah which is fasting two months or feeding sixty poor persons. There is a difference of opinion whether blood money should be paid. Non-combatants should not be executed if they fall into captivity. Islam does not allow the enemy to use our rules against us and to use our rules to our disadvantage. The consideration of the continuation of jihad and the victory of the Muslims should always take precedence when the scholar gives a fatwa on a matter relating to jihad. The following are aĥâdîth that prohibit the killing of non-combatants: Ibn Umar narrated that the Messenger of Allah prohibited the killing of women and children. The Messenger of Allah said: “Do not kill an old man or a child or a woman.” The Messenger of Allah found a woman killed in one of his battles and said: “She is not a fighter.” Our scholars have used the terms muqâtilah and ghayr muqâtilah which translates into “combatants” and “non-combatants” respectively to classify the disbelievers who are at war with the Muslims. It is the consensus of the scholars that Muslims should not kill the women and children of the disbelievers intentionally. It is the word “intentionally” that should be explained here because it qualifies the above statement and a lack of understanding this rule is what leads to the confusion that surrounds this issue today. What is meant is that women and children should not be singled out for killing; women and children should not be killed if they fall into captivity and if they can be separated from the combatants in war they should. But in no way does it mean that Islam prohibits the fighting against the disbelievers if their men, women and children are intermingled. This understanding is very dangerous and detrimental to jihad and awareness on this issue is very important. To stop the targeting of disbelievers who are at war with the Muslims just because there are women and children among them leads to constraints on today’s jihad that make it very difficult, and at times, impossible to fight and places the Muslims at a great disadvantage compared to their enemy. To properly understand this issue let’s look at the statements of the scholars regarding attacking the enemy in their dwellings and laying siege to their towns. During the time of the Messenger of Allah there was a form of fighting called bayat. This is when the enemy would be attacked at night under the cover of darkness. The attackers would ambush the enemy in their tents and houses and engage them in fighting. This would lead to the deaths of men, women and children who were in the tents or homes because of the difficulty in distinguishing the difference between man, woman and child. So is this form of fighting allowed in Islam? The answer is yes. The Messenger of Allah was asked about the ruling concerning the women and children who get targeted in bayat. The Messenger of Allah said in an authentic narration: “They belong to them.” Which means that the ruling of the women and children is the same as that for the combatant men whom it is allowed to kill. The Messenger of Allah permitted his companions to engage in this form of fighting even though, at occasions, entire families would be killed. Salamah said: “I myself have killed the inhabitants of nine houses.” Imam Ahmad was asked about bayat. He said: “And is the fighting against the Romans but bayat?” In other words, Imam Ahmad not only approves of bayat but also states that it is the most common method of war employed by the Muslims against the Romans. There is no difference in ruling between bayat and detonating a bomb in a populated center in a nation that is at war with the Muslims. Just as the swords of the companions and those who followed them could not distinguish between man, woman and child and yet were allowed to engage in bayat, why should we ban bombings of populated areas in disbelieving countries? The matter of bayat is agreed upon to the extent that Imam Ahmad said: “We do not know of anyone who discouraged bayat.” The other method of fighting which is relevant to our discussion is setting the catapult or mangonel against the cities of the disbelievers. The scholars of sîrah mentioned that the Messenger of Allah set up the mangonel against al-Taif and that Amr bin al-Aas used it against Alexandria in Egypt. The mangonel would strike its missiles against the city and did not distinguish between man, woman or child. The ruling on using the mangonel against the enemy is summarized by Ibn Rushd who states that: “It is the consensus of the jurists that it is allowed to set up catapults against the forts of the disbelievers whether there are women and children in them or not because of what was narrated to us that the Messenger of Allah set up the mangonel against the people of al-Taif.” Imam al-Shafi’i says: “It has been reported to us that the Messenger of Allah set up the mangonel against al-Taif. So if it was necessary for the Muslims to not target the disbelievers because of the existence of children amongst them, the Messenger of Allah would have prohibited that because their cities and fortresses are not without women, children, elderly, (Muslim) prisoners, and merchants. This narration from al-Taif (that he used the mangonel) and others is well preserved and well known from the sunnah of the Messenger of Allah and his sîrah. It has also been the practice of the Muslims and the righteous predecessors from the companions of Muhammad to be as such in regards to the fortresses of the disbelievers before us and it has not been reported to us that any one of them stopped targeting a fortress by mangonel or other forms of weaponry just because of the existence of women, children or others who should not be killed among them.” After mentioning that it is allowed to use the mangonel, Imam al-Mawardi says that: “The prohibition of the Messenger of Allah of killing women and children applies to when they fall captive since they are booty for the Muslims. But when the women and children are in the land of war they can be targeted as their men because the land of war is a land that is permissible (to target its people).” But even with the mangonel, the scholars allowed its use against civilian targets based on the need. Imam al-Shafi’i states that if the Muslims are at a distance from the fort or the town they should fire only at the walls and not at the homes of the disbelievers. However, if they are close to the walls then they are allowed to fire at the homes. Again, with the mangonel just as with bayat, it leads to the loss of lives of non-combatants. A mangonel missile that strikes at a city and which is by no means an accurate weapon is no different than bombing a city of a nation that is at war with the Muslims. Therefore from the above two pieces of evidence it becomes clear that Muslims are allowed to target the populations of countries that are at war with the Muslims by bombings or firearm attacks or other forms of attacks that inevitably lead to the deaths of non-combatants. Notice that I haven't even brought up the evidence of treating the enemy as they treat us. With all the aggression the West is committing against the Muslims this additional evidence leaves no room for those who argue on behalf of the general populations of the West. It is important to look into the foundations, which our classical scholars based their fatâwâ on concerning jihad to see why they came to different conclusions compared to many scholars of today. Imam Abu Zakaria al-Ansari: “It is allowed to set up the mangonel on a fort even if it would strike (the non-combatants) so that they do not use that as a way to disable jihad or as a ruse to keep their fortresses and in that is great evil.” Imam al-Nawawi: “If there is in the town or the fortress a Muslim, a (Muslim) prisoner, a merchant, a disbeliever who is given peace, or a group of the aforementioned, is it allowed to target the population with fire or mangonels and what is similar to that? There are different ways in the madhab (school of thought). First, if it is not necessary to strike them then the stronger opinion is that it is not recommended to do so but it is not prohibited. This is so that jihad does not become disabled because of a Muslim who is among the disbelievers. If it is necessary to strike them due to fear from harm that would befall the Muslims from them or because the fortress could not be opened in any other way, then there is no doubt that it is allowed to strike them. The second way in the madhab is that there is no consideration for necessity. If striking them would lead to the death of a Muslim they should not strike them otherwise there are two opinions. The third way, and this is mentioned by the author of al-Shâmil, is that if the number of Muslims among them is equal to the disbelievers we should not strike them but if they are less, then we can strike them because most of the harm would not be on the Muslims. The official position of the madhab, and this is what is stated in al-Mukhtasar, is that it is allowed to strike them even if it is known that it would inflict harm on the Muslims (among the disbelievers) because the sanctity of the Muslims on our side is greater than the sanctity of the Muslims who are among them. If some Muslims do get killed they are martyrs.” Imam Ibn Qudamah al-Maqdisi: “If they (the enemy) shield themselves in war by women and children and others who should not be killed, it is allowed to target them with the intention of killing the combatants. This is because the Prophet used the mangonel even though there were women and children among them. It is also because if the Muslims seize attacking them this would lead to the disablement of jihad since the enemy would use this shield to protect themselves whenever they feel threatened by the Muslims. It is allowed to strike against them whether the battle is raging or not because the Prophet did not wait to strike only at the times when the battle was underway.” Imam Ibn Qudamah al-Maqdisi also says: “It was reported by Ali bin Abi Talib that the Prophet set up the mangonel against the people of al-Taif; and flooding the enemy with water is similar to that. If there are Muslims among them and we can conquer the enemy without using such methods, then we shouldn’t because it would lead to the shedding of blood without any necessity but if we cannot conquer them unless we use such methods then it is allowed because prohibiting that would lead to the disablement of jihad.” This is just a sample of quotations from our classical scholars to show that the continuation of jihad takes precedence over other considerations and that whatever would lead to the disablement of jihad should be abrogated. Many of the modern scholars have placed a set of rigid rules that if followed would make jihad impossible or at least put the Muslims in a position of disadvantage compared to an enemy who has no morals when it comes to its war against Islam. Some of the restrictions placed on jihad by some of the modern scholars include: Jihad should not be fought without the permission of the king or president; Martyrdom operations are not allowed; Any operation that leads to the death of disbelieving women and children is not allowed. The first restriction by itself would lead to the complete abandonment of jihad because none of the kings or presidents (who are apostates to start with) would allow jihad for the sake of Allah. The only type of war they would allow is a war that benefits them personally and protects their power. They would care less about a war that is for the sake of Allah, the promotion of Islam or the defense of Muslims. The other two restrictions rule out most of the operation methods available for the mujahidin today. Imam Ibn Rushd says that it is the consensus of the jurists that fortresses could be struck with mangonels whether there are women and children in them or not. Imam al-Shafi’i says: “It has also been the practice of the Muslims and the righteous predecessors from the companions of Muhammad to be as such in regards to the fortresses of the disbelievers before us and it has not been reported to us that any one of them stopped targeting a fortress by mangonel or other forms of weaponry just because of the existence of women or children or others who should not be killed among them.” And Imam Ahmad said: “And is the fighting against the Romans but bayat?” It has been the practice of the Messenger of Allah in his battles to attack populations of the disbelievers even if women and children get unintentionally killed; it has been the practice of the four righteous Caliphs, the Umayyads, the Abbasids, the Ayyubids, the Muslims in Spain and the Mamluks in their wars to ambush the Romans in bayat and to use mangonels against them; and it has been the practice of the Ottomans to use artillery in their sieges against the disbelievers’ towns and cities. So can we throw away 1,400 years of war methods out of the window and come up today with new unfair rules for our jihad? What the Muslims didn’t do is kill them intentionally or kill them when they surrendered and fell into captivity. A sound understanding of this issue is very much needed today in order not to restrict our jihad or put our brothers at jeopardy by banning them from feasible targets just because it would lead to the deaths of non-combatants, and only allow them to attack military targets that are more protected. Modes of operation that would be allowed according to the above evidence: The use of explosives against populated areas in nations that are at war with Muslims is allowed. Explosive devices are similar to the effect a mangonel would have. Mangonel missiles were either stones which would fall and kill by impact or by shrapnel caused by them or containers that are filled with an incendiary material which would kill by burning. Some scholars have equated explosives to the use of fire against the enemy, which isn’t exactly accurate. It is true that explosives do produce high temperatures but most deaths are caused by shrapnel and by the detonation wave. The heat of the explosion causes the least number of casualties. This is the case with most explosive materials. But whether the death is caused by heat or by shrapnel, explosives are similar in legislation to the use of the mangonel. The use of firearms in operations such as that of Mumbai, which is targeted at the general population, is allowed and is similar to the bayat method of war discussed above. The shooter can fire randomly at crowds but should avoid the execution of women or children when the target is clear. The use of poisons or chemical and biological weapons against population centers is allowed and is strongly recommended due to its great effect on the enemy. Regarding the importance and permissibility of using such weapons, the classical scholars have said the following: Imam al-Mawardi: “The Messenger of Allah set up the catapult on al-Taif when he laid siege to it following the opening of Makkah. It is allowed to attack the enemy (in the place where they live such as their cities or villages) when they are not aware, like what the Messenger of Allah did with Bani al-Mustalaq, and it is allowed to attack them at night and set fire to their homes and throw on them fire, snakes or scorpions, demolish their homes with them inside, release floods onto them, cutoff their water supply, and do onto them all what would lead to their destruction without refraining just because of the women and children that are among them, even if that would lead to the deaths of their women and children. This is because the Messenger of Allah did not stop from attacking Bani al-Mustalaq or al-Taif because of their women and children. The instruction of the Messenger of Allah not to kill women and children is when they are intentionally executed; also when they fall as booty they should not be killed. However when they are residing in dâr al-ĥarb, it is ĥalâl to target them and they carry the same ruling as their men.” Imam al-Sarkhasi (a Hanafi scholar) quotes Muhammad ibn al-Hassan from Sharĥ al-Sayr al-Kabîr: “It is allowed for the Muslims to burn the fortresses of the disbelievers with fire, to flood them with water, or to put blood, feces or poison in their water until they contaminate it because Allah commanded us to subdue them and break their strength and all the methods of war which we mentioned that would lead to their weakening would be fulfilling the commands (of Allah) and would not fall under disobeying (of Allah). All of this also damages the enemy and that is a way to obtain rewards. Allah says: ﴾Nor do they inflict any injury upon an enemy but is written to their credit as a deed of righteousness﴿ [9: 120]. None of the mentioned (methods of war) are prohibited if there is among them Muslim prisoners of war, people who are given peace, young or old, men or women even if we know that, because there is no way to avoid them and at the same time fulfill the commands of subjugating the disbelievers and whatever is not possible to avoid is forgiven.” Imam Ibn Farhoon (a Maliki scholar): “The enemy is fought in every way, and with fire if there is no other means if we fear harm from them. If we do not fear harm from them then there are two opinions. […] It is not disputable that we are allowed to strike their ships and fortresses with the mangonel even if Muslims are therein.” Imam al-Kharshi (a Maliki scholar): “It is allowed to fight the enemy if they do not respond to what we call them to with all forms of war. It is allowed to cut off water from them to kill them from thirst, to release floods on them, to drown them according to the famous opinion, or to kill them with weapons such as a blow from a sword, a stab from a lance, a missile from a mangonel or other weapons of war.” Imam al-Shafi’i: “If the enemy protects himself in a mountain, a fortress, a trench, with thorn trees, or with any form of protection it is allowed to strike them with mangonels, catapults, fire, scorpions, snakes and all what harms them. It is allowed to flood them with water to drown them, or to get them hampered in mud. That is whether women, children and priests are among them or not because the land (of war) is not protected with Islam or with a covenant. It is also acceptable to burn their fruit trees or other trees, to destroy their buildings and all what doesn’t have a soul from their belongings.” Imam al-Bahuti (a Hanbali scholar): “It is also allowed to strike them (the disbelievers) and put fire, snakes, or scorpions in the scales of the mangonel, to fill their tunnels with smoke, to release floods on them in order to drown them, and to destroy their fortresses and buildings. But if we can defeat them without the use of fire then we shouldn’t use it.” Imam al-Shawkani: “Allah has commanded us to kill the disbelievers without specifying the methods of doing so. Allah did not command us to do this or not do that. Therefore there is no preventing from killing them with every means of killing whether it is shooting, stabbing, flooding, demolishing buildings on them or throwing them from heights.” These statements of the scholars show that it is allowed to use poison or other methods of mass killing against the disbelievers who are at war with us. In addition to that, there are many other important insights in their statements that the reader may benefit from. The populations of the nations that are at war with the Muslims and especially those who are at the lead such as the U.S., Britain and France should be targeted by the mujahidin in operations that employ explosives, poisons, firearms and all other methods that lead to inflicting the greatest harm on them and this is among the greatest deeds a Muslim can worship Allah with in our day and time. 