One day, while together on a military exercise, a Major from 1 Frontier Force Regiment of Pakistan Army showed me his diary. It was a meticulously crafted personal notebook but what really intrigued me was a list on its initial pages. The list contained the names of all the commanding officers of 1 Frontier Force Regiment in a chronological order and to my surprise; the list was dating back to the year 1757. This was the year when British East India Company captured Bengal in a major battle against the Muslim ruler Nawab Siraj-ud-Daulah at Plassey. “So, your Battalion fought against the Muslims in 1757?” I asked the Major. A glitter of pride appeared in his eyes, “Yes, and the British government and military acknowledge our services till today!” Sadly, the Major of Pakistan’s Army was telling the truth. Many of the battalions of Pakistan’s Army have continued to exist since British occupation of India. In those days, about 80% troops of the Royal Indian Army were Indians but commanded by the British officers. One cannot resist appreciating the cunning of the British, how smartly they subdued the Indian population using the soldiers recruited from the very same population. The Muslim rule in India ended in 1857, exactly 100 years after the battle of Plassey, with the British East India Company taking over control of most of India. This defeat could be attributed to the indulgence of Muslim rulers in the worldly pleasures and divergence from the Islamic shari`ah, but surely the Royal Indian Army played an important role in bringing victory to the British. The unequivocal loyalty and subordination of today’s Pakistani Army to the anti-Muslim Crusader alliance may surprise some people but it is a historical fact that the troops from this area have always been loyal to the British and were especially instrumental in undermining the independence movement by other Indians in 1857. The forefathers of present day’s Pakistan Army under the leadership of British commander Brigadier General John Nicholson were mobilized from North Western India (present day Pakistan) to fight against Indian freedom fighters who were trying to restore the authority of the Muslim Mughal Emperor in Delhi. After 1857, the forefathers of the present day Pakistan Army have also fought against the Muslims under the leadership of the British in the second Afghan war (1878-80) as well as in the First and Second World Wars. Participation of these so-called “Muslim troops” in the First World War is of great importance as they helped the British abolish the Islamic Caliphate completely for the first time in the 1400 year history of Islam. These “Muslim troops” participating in the World Wars were strongly supported by pro-British “Muslim” politicians such as Muhammad Ali Jinnah, the man who was to later become the founder of Pakistan. British rule in India officially ended after the Second World War (1939-1945) and the status of “superpower” on the global stage was transferred to the United States of America. Pakistan was soon created after the Second World War in 1947 and the Royal Indian Army was also divided into an Indian and Pakistani Army. The partition of India was solely in British and Americans’ interest but the Pakistani Muslims were deceived into believing that the aim of Pakistan’s creation was to establish Islamic shari`ah in the newly acquired piece of land. After the partition, politicians and military Generals loyal to the West showed their true color and instead of implementing Islamic shari`ah, they decided to rule the new country according to the same old British colonial laws. Alternatively the Pakistan Army, with the financial, political and military support of its American and British masters, actively seized any attempt to implement the shari`ah in Pakistan, thus causing great difficulties for Pakistani Muslims in the last 63 years. Even today, the Pakistan Army’s battalions of British ancestry are not shy of boasting about their loyalties to the British masters. A notorious battalion of Pakistan’s Army called Guides Cavalry still wears a red piping on their collars to commemorate the wounding of their officers by the Indian freedom fighters (referred to as mutineers by the British) during the war of Indian Independence. The Pakistani Army is not just restricted to covert means to keep its grip on the Muslims of Pakistan, but these blood thirsty rogues are ready to spill any amount of innocent blood if their evil rule is challenged. The numbers of Muslims murdered by Pakistan’s Army in the last 63 years are hard to estimate but they can easily run in the millions. These acts of mass murder, not only include the present day killings in the tribal areas, Swat and Islamabad but also the genocide of Muslims in East Pakistan (now Bangladesh) in 1971. The Chief of Army Staff General Yahya Khan who was also the president of Pakistan at that time, ordered the army to massacre the Bengali Muslims; additionally, countless of Muslim women were raped. This killing spree finally ended with a humiliating surrender of 93,000 Pakistani soldiers to the retaliating Bengali Muslims and Indian Army ; making it the biggest surrender ever seen in Islamic history, although it was far from being an Islamic army. The soldier of the Pakistani Army primarily fights for money and he justifies his moral corruption by taking pride in another un-Islamic concept of “patriotic nationalism”. The salary of a Pakistani soldier is carefully determined. It is slightly higher than the salary of other government employees but still much lower than the Western Crusader troops. Resultantly, for higher salary, Pakistani soldiers would happily serve as paid mercenaries, anywhere in the world and under any conditions. For their conscience, it does not matter if they are asked to fight against Muslim mujahidin, or they have to safeguard the Crusaders interest under the banner of United Nations’ “peacekeepers” at various places around the world. The Pakistan Army’s lust for money has been acknowledged many times in the past by their Crusader masters. The Pakistan Army’s lust for money and its justification through nationalism were clearly demonstrated during the tyrannical rule of Pervez Musharraf when he raised the slogan “Pakistan comes first”. Following this satanic concept, the Pakistani Army martyred a considerable number of precious non-Pakistani mujahidin residing in Pakistan and many were sold to the Crusaders. Before the launch of the Crusades in 2001, soldiers of the Pakistani Army were traditionally prepared to fight against Hindus but their Crusader masters needed them to fight against sincere mujahidin. The resulting confusion in the mind of the Pakistani soldiers was resolved by the Pakistani media and self proclaimed “defence analysts” who portrayed the mujahidin as Indian agents, thus providing Pakistani soldiers the justification to fight against them. The Chief Crusaders, America and Britain, were painted as friends whose support is considered important to protect Pakistan from India and her “agents”! It is quite baffling to see the effects of this spectacular brainwashing that Pakistani soldiers would see the Crusader enemies on their soil with their own eyes, using their roads, airports and seaports but they still do not comprehend the foreign troops as occupiers. Instead, Pakistani soldiers are fighting and dying against mujahidin as if they were fighting against polytheist Hindus! The Pakistani Army apparently takes great pride in calling itself a Muslim army but the majority of the personnel are detached from Islam. Few people offer the prayers regularly and rarely does anyone practice the guidelines of the Qur’an and Sunnah. As a result, immorality and corruption have seeped deep into the roots of the Pakistani Army and it is not uncommon to find alcoholics, gamblers, adulterers, homosexuals and drug traffickers amongst its lower and higher ranks. Allah Almighty says in the Qur’an: ﴾And there are some people who say: We believe in Allah and the last day; and they are not at all believers. They desire to deceive Allah and those who believe, and they deceive only themselves and they do not perceive. There is a disease in their hearts, so Allah added to their disease and they shall have a painful chastisement because they lie. And when it is said to them, do not make corruption in the land, they say, we are but the reformers﴿ [2: 8-11]. If there is a voice to implement the shari`ah within the Army or country, it is met with extreme brutality with the silent consent of the Western powers; examples of which are the assassination of late President Zia ul Haq and the massacre of Islamabad’s Red Mosque. The thought process of Pakistan’s Army commanders seems quite similar to the ideology given by a sixteenth century Italian military philosopher Niccolo Machiavelli. Machiavelli was termed as devil incarnate by some of his contemporaries. He writes in his book The Prince: In order to succeed, a conqueror should ignore moral considerations entirely and depend upon strength and cunning. In taking a territory, the conqueror must arrange to commit all his cruelties at once, so as not to have to recur to them every day. The Pakistani Army employs deception, lying and betrayal as the main strategies of war and one should never believe in any word coming from the mouth of a Pakistani Army personnel. They’ve had a history of befriending mujahidin commanders but only to later sell their whereabouts to the Crusaders. Here, it is worth mentioning the example of the gallant mujahid Commander Nek Muhammad who mistakenly trusted the Pakistani Army and made a treaty with Pakistani General Safdar in April 2004. Nek Muhammad was martyred about two months later by an American drone with the intelligence provided by the Pakistani Army. ﴾And when they meet those who believe, they say, “We believe”; but when they are alone with their evil ones, they say, “Indeed, we are with you; we were only mockers.” [But] Allah mocks them and prolongs them in their transgression [while] they wander blindly﴿ [2: 14-16]. The Crusaders keep their influence over Pakistan’s Army by controlling a few handpicked elite Generals who in turn exert their control over the whole army mainly through training curriculum and military laws. The process of moral corruption starts at the very beginning of the training. The training usually starts at a very young age and the recruits are brainwashed at various army schools, cadet colleges and military academies; many of which have been running since British colonial era. The mainstay of the training is to inculcate in every soldier the ideas of unquestioned obedience to the senior officers and absolute enslavement of the sub-ordinates in the name of “leadership”. Hence, it is not surprising to see that a sepoy would be completely submitted to a non-commissioned officer (NCO); an NCO to a commissioned officer; a commissioned officer to a General and ultimately the Generals would be in total submission to the Crusaders military and political hierarchy. This phenomenon results in a well-organized system in the Army called the “chain of command”. While their sway over internal military affairs within the ranks of Pakistan are not of the orchestrate nature, they are certainly acquainted with Pakistan’s leadership. Right from the induction into Pakistan’s Army, recruits are made to idolize the Crusader armies as the height of professional excellence. As an incentive, top cadets from the Pakistan Military Academy are sent to Royal Military Academy Sandhurst, UK for further training. A major portion of military educational curriculum taught in the Pakistan Army institutions is based upon campaigns and tactics of the Allied Armies during the World Wars. Officers who per form well in these institutions are promoted to higher ranks and further selected for foreign courses in the military institutions primarily in USA and UK where their loyalties to the Crusader armies are further ascertained. Qualification from the Crusaders’ military institutions is one of the pre-requisites to become a General in the Pakistani Army. As an example of this phenomenon, we can look at the career of present Chief of Army Staff General Ashfaq Parvez Kiani. Kiani first studied at the Military College Jhelum (MCJ ); a notorious institution inaugurated in 1922 by the British Prince of Wales that starts grooming the children as young as 12 with a dream of becoming a General in the Pakistani Army. Kiani was then trained at the Pakistan Military Academy Kakul. During his military career, he acquired higher education in the Pakistan at Command and Staff College Quetta and the National Defence University Islamabad. Then he was further trained in various American military institutions that include the United States Army Infantry School, Fort Benning, Georgia; the Command and General Staff College, Fort Leavenworth, Kansas and the Asia-Pacific Center for Security Studies, Honolulu, Hawaii, USA. After grooming the suitable Pakistani Army officers, the Crusaders lift them to the position of Generals and then control them through the carrot and stick policy. If Generals follow the agenda of their masters, they are showered with wealth and praises and if the Generals are not efficient in per forming their job, they are rebuked with the threats of assassination. Allah’s Messenger said: “Nations will call each other, as people make invitations to a meal, to make a concerted attack on you.” Someone asked: ‘Will this happen because of our being small in number? Allah’s Messenger answered: “Rather, you will then be great in number, but as powerless as woodchips or straw carried in a flood. Allah will remove fear of you from the hearts of your enemies and implant in you love of this world and hatred of death.” For the Pakistani Army, it is a lusting after this world and a fear of death. In addition to education and training, the Western powers influence Pakistan’s Army through military laws. The civilian laws of the Pakistani state are already un-Islamic and have stemmed from the colonial laws of British rule, yet the Pakistani Army has its own independent laws that are, at occasions, outside the jurisdiction of civilian laws. These military laws are compiled in the Manual of Pakistan Military Law (MPML) that consists of draconian orders set by the British to subdue the masses of the Indian population. The influence of the Crusaders over the Pakistani Army is also evident from the fact that the ranks of the Pakistani and British Army are kept exactly the same, emphasizing their common origin. However, in shoulder badges, the crown has been replaced by a star and crescent, perhaps to give an “Islamic look” to an otherwise slave army. The services of the Pakistani Army to the Crusaders are so enormous and so significant that without them, the invasion and occupation of Afghanistan would have been impossible. The Pakistani Army has provided secure airbases to Crusaders where their planes are stationed and fuelled. Infamous drones are also based in the airports provided and secured by the Pakistani Army. As a reward for these services, the Crusaders have paid a great amount of wealth to the Pakistani Army. According to Pervez Musharraf, America had given $10 billion dollars in military aid by 2008. Under the Kerry Logar Bill, Pakistan’s government and Army are to receive a further $7.5 billion dollars in next 5 years. Pakistan’s Army is providing very valuable services to the Crusaders at a very low cost. It is estimated that the expenditure on a single American soldier in one year is around $1 million dollars while a Pakistani soldier is providing the same or maybe better services for just $3,000 dollars per year! The supply line is one of the most important factors in fighting any war and the Pakistani Army has been instrumental in providing security to the Crusaders’ two main supply routes through Pakistan. The Crusaders have generously provided vehicles, planes and equipment since 2001 that were previously unheard of in the Pakistani Army. In the light of the above, it can be deduced that the Crusaders’ occupation of Afghanistan is standing on its historical asset, the Pakistani Army. Until the Pakistani Army is standing and guarding the supply routes, the Crusaders are in the position to continue this war for a considerable length of time leading to further bloodshed of Afghani and Pakistani Muslims. Hence, in order to bring down Crusaders’ military structure, it is important to strike a decisive blow to its pillar: the Pakistani Army. Hence, the dealings with the Pakistani Army should be met with considerable terror and an effort should be made to publicize the retaliatory atrocities caused by them. Their senior officers should be assassinated through targeted killings. Once this Army is fear ful of mujahidin, it would not be able to protect the Crusaders’ supply lines, air bases, soldiers and private contractors in Pakistan who could then be targeted relatively easily leading to an ischaemia of the Crusader armies in Afghanistan. After the Crusaders withdraw from Afghanistan, Pakistan's Army should be thoroughly annihilated and its personnel, who were complicit with the Crusaders, should be tried and executed publicly. ﴾Those who believe fight in the way of Allah, and those who disbelieve fight in the way of the Satan. Fight therefore against the friends of Satan; surely the strategy of the Satan is weak﴿ [4: 76].