Ali Sa’eed Hussain Jameel, better known as Muwahid, was the humble friend we all came to know and love. His regular interest in his brothers and hospitality towards them quickly made him one of the most beloved of the Anşâr. He was hard working and always busy in reconnaissance work as well as military operations against the army of shirk. He was also a prominent figure in the ranks of da`wah, calling the people to tawĥîd and jihad. Muwahid – may Allah have mercy upon him – joined al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula in its early stages. Because of his hospitality, he became one of the pivots in the movement, providing major support to the brothers. His house was always open to the brothers, thus making it one of the most significant mujahidin shelters. Because of this, the leaders of apostasy in Yemen placed him on their most wanted list. But that didn’t bother this bold lion, for his heart was only concerned about success in the next life; meeting with the Prophet and resting in al-Firdaus al-`Alâ for eternity. When I first met Muwahid, he struck me as a very down-to-earth individual although he was large and well-built. A brother introduced me to him as one of those that took part in the battle for Ma’rib. He was the first person I met that took part in that event. It was after the battle of Ma’rib that the name of al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula gave the murtadîn nightmares. Muwahid was one of the brothers that helped attack an enemy’s convoy before the battle. The battle then commenced when the apostates surrounded the house of Aaidh al-Shabwani, may Allah have mercy upon him. He lived a simple life and chose the possessions of the âkhira over the dunyâ’s. He was a mu’min that had wonder ful qualities such as good humor, piety and courage. He would never speak ill of his brothers and sought to make those around him happy. He was an outstanding poet and had written quite a few poems that were later sung and recorded as nashîd’s by the mujahidin. If there was ever a problem between the brothers, he was the quickest to quell it by taking the brother(s) to the side and advising them humbly. Nearly everyday, if he had the chance, he would exercise for a few hours; staying in good shape was important to him seeing that jihad is hard on the body. He loved to spend his time with Islamic books to gain knowledge but because most of his time was spent traveling around for the jihad, he was unable to pursue that as much as he wanted. Muwahid was the Amir of Ma’rib for a number of years until his role changed. He later played a major part in the opening of Abyan. He was specialized in shooting mortars and had marksmanship. He took part in many battles and usually played the role of an Amir. His knowledge of weaponry, guerilla war fare and Yemen’s landscape was exemplary. He was martyred with other brothers in Abyan when the murtadîn attacked them. We ask Allah to accept Muwahid amongst the shuhadâ’.