One of my earliest memories is that of President John F. Kennedy's death being analyzed on television. With cold accuracy, the experts – and the television cameras – hovered over a plastic model of the human brain, pointing with pens at the trajectory of the bullets that killed an beloved American leader. As I sift through the beginnings of the inevitably increasing torrents of inevitable news reports, I am taken aback, shocked and saddened by the realization that a naturalized citizen had the incredibly unmitigated gall to kill four of America's finest soldiers. It hurts even more to realize that all four were white men like myself. Like probably all of us, I've had friends who have been in the military. They're a brave, dedicated and focused lot. Sure, some move towards the military as a 'last-ditch' effort to save themselves from self-defeating behaviors or limited educations. Even THOSE are transformed into exemplary citizens. Imagine the MAJORITY who instead go into the armed services who HAVE MORE than the lowest common denominator that's recruitable. Imagine the four Marines who were killed in Chattanooga this week by a shooter who was allegedly influenced by ISIS. A 'journalist' is not supposed to let tears well up. But, a 'writer' can. So can a 'patriot.' I pass an armed services recruiting office every week or two on my rounds to the 'dollar store,' the 'big-box store,' and whatever errands I have to fill my time with. The recruiters and their friends who hang around that office are usually happy and healthy. They unwittingly embarrass me while I'm chomping down on a moderately-glutinous foot-long sub sandwich, yet they 'indulge' in a low- fat/protein-dense six-inch sub of their choice. I am embarrassed, but ironically pleased. Everything is as it SHOULD be. Except in Chattanooga. When will politicians realize that the American experience CANNOT continue with the polyglot of people who hate us? When will they realize that it is NOT the Confederate Flag that incites violence, but the credo of third-world countries? They are BEGINNING to realize this. EXCECPT in Chattanooga. John Donne, the English poet and a cleric in the Church of England (considered the pre-eminent representative of the metaphysical poets) once said, “The death of any man diminishes me.” Obviously, I am diminished right now. ALL white people are diminished now. Even journalists, writers, and patriots. ESPECIALLY in Chattanooga.