NSM Media honors these French white nationalist publications by paraphrasing their questions, and printing Commander Schoep's largely unedited initial replies. The first question of the journalists is how Commander Schoep had come to national socialism from a pro-white perspective. “I had come to National Socialism at a very young age, but was not able to find any movement groups until I was around 17 years old. At that time, it was not easy to find groups like it is now. I found the NSM (at that time the name was changed to NSAWFM). Later when I was appointed to lead the organization, I changed it back to its original name National Socialist Movement.” The next question predictably centers on George Lincoln Rockwell, his follows, and the possible plot regarding his murder. “George Lincoln Rockwell was the father of National Socialism in the U.S. He linked most of fair right movements and created some kind of an American National Socialism.” “Commander Rockwell was the founder of post-World War II American National Socialism. Before him, there was the German American Bund, and also the Silver Shirts of William Dudley Pelley. We honor Commander Rockwell, and are the only existing American National Socialist group that has direct ties to Commander Rockwell besides the New Order – who also have ties to Commander Rockwell. The man who murdered him was John Patler, who was a traitor who felt he knew better than Commander Rockwell, and assassinated him. From my understanding, Patler did almost no time in jail for the murder, and was released and was hidden under a new name. If he is still alive, he is living under a fake name somewhere.” The magazines' authors note the increase in public demonstrations, membership, and media coverage for the NSM (“even in France, we heard about you!) The next questions about about more specifics of the NSM. “We have been very fortunate to have a good team of National Socialists who are very active and... visible in the streets. A lot of Americans are afraid to take to the streets and will not do much actively; we are the opposite and we get out there. We also use the internet, our record label (nsm88records.com), our social networking site (newsaxon.org) – currently offline, but is coming back very soon, perhaps by the time this interview airs, and we also pass out literature. We have also released two video games -- "Zogs Nightmare: 1 and 2.” We are active on the Southern USA borders doing patrols in very dangerous areas where the U.S. government posts signs warning people not to travel in those areas due to the drug cartels and drug smuggling operations. We send men into those areas in order to halt drug trafficking and illegal immigration into our nation. Those are just a few examples of things the NSM does. We are also very active in public protests and marches, and we do run people for public office.” The next questions centered around the late Jeff Hall. “Jeff Hall was an amazing activist for the NSM, and he obtained over 30% of the vote when he ran for [a local] public office. He organized countless rallies for the party, and was highly active in our border patrol operations as well. He is greatly missed in the organization. It is a hard subject for me to speak about, because Jeff was not just a valuable NSM member, but he was also a good friend, and he is greatly missed. His death was a very strange situation that no one could really explain, other than it was horrible and unimaginable. American national socialism suffered a great loss that day, as did Jeff's family. It is a tragedy.” Now, about Dylann Roof... “The National Socialist Movement does not support what Dylann Roof is alleged to have done. It is said that he targeted innocent people who were attending church, which is not something a white warrior would do. The current USA ZOG system has reacted by attempting to ban the Rebel flag, which is part of white heritage here in our nation. In fact, I have just returned from a rally at the South Carolina State Capitol in defense of the flag. We just put up videos, pictures, and an after action report on our website nsm88.org from the South Carolina rally. A Race war in this nation is something we feel could happen at any time, of course we do not wish for that, but if it happens we will be ready for it, and the white race will survive and flourish no matter what.” How about President Obama and his economic policies 'hitting home?' “Many, many people in this city [Detroit] are out of work, and one of the best examples I can give is a comrade who came to visit here. He had been in London during World War II, and stated that large parts of Detroit reminded him of London after the German bombings... due to the ruined homes, and neighborhoods here. Detroit is a very dangerous and violent city, so for us being based here its right in the heart of America's problems, a good place to be to make change.” “What is National Socialism for you,” and how does it work with religion and other like- minded groups? “National Socialism for me is a way of life, and we hope to install those values in all of our folk. In regards to religion, the NSM does not promote or endorse any specific religion. If I was to make a guess, I would say about 45% of our membership is Pagan, 45% Christian, and 10% other religions or no religion. Currently in the USA, we do sometimes work with the KKK. There are many factions of the Klan – some are friendly to NS and others see it as against America or some other crazy thinking. I am of the school of thought where we all had better find our common ground and fight together, or we face extinction as a people. Anyone who is fighting among ourselves and dividing over minor issues, such as religion or whatever issue is, only serving the enemy and is not our folk.” “Could you describe the majors nationalist movements” and other related organizations? “We do have different factions and groups here, and each of those... also have some splinter factions within those groups as well. The National Socialist Movement does not have any splinter factions, nor do we tolerate anyone attempting to split our group into pieces. Regarding the other organizations, I cannot say that I pay much attention to what is going on in them. We have friends and comrades in all of the different factions, and we welcome almost all of them to work with us or attend things we do if they wish to do so. Our hand of comradeship is extended to them all. The only people we will not work with is those who seek to cause division, or harbor sex offenders, or if they openly work to cause problems among the white organizations. With that said, anyone who does that, we feel is probably working for ZOG. It is too late in the fight for our race to have anyone around who would seek to divide us from within. Regarding the criminal organizations, its really not the same as the rest of the groups, as the rest of the organizations stay within legal guidelines, the criminal ones operate completely different, and we do not really have any connection to that.” What about European Nationalists? “I understand that some European Nationalists do not like America, mostly because of American support of Israel (Occupied Palestine), however I have never understood why some of them do not like American Nationalists, as we fight the ZOG system, we are no different. The difference though between American Nationalists and European Nationalists is that so many Americans absolutely refuse to get active in the streets. The NSM is one of the few groups left in the USA that still do street activism. There are a few others who do fight alongside of us, but the fact that so many American Nationalists only want to be active on the internet and not in real life, or they just want to hang out and drink and talk about the problems, we face is a major problem within the U.S. movement. It keeps us weaker than we should be, and its shameful that any strong white person would have an excuse for being a coward, or inactive in the real fight when our race and our rights are being taken away. With that being said, perhaps that is why some European Nationalists do not like the American Movement? Personally, I know that myself and those who actively stand with us here do our part and we battle the reds and Antifa in the streets, and we are well known for that. I will make no excuse for the lazy, fat, out-of-shape, or cowardly internet warriors here in the USA, for their lack of action. But I will continue to do my part and push everyone I know of to do the same for our race and nation.” And what of France? “I really did not know that Zionists are so heavily involved over there. But in typical Jewish tactics of divide-and-conquer, I am not surprised. The Jews play both sides of the fence so they can remain safe. I have noticed that the Jews are heavily involved in attempting to get white activists to focus on Muslims, which takes the spotlight off of the Jew. My advice is never ever remove the bright shining light off of the Jew, for it is the Jew that is the true enemy of all humanity on this planet! All the other races and racial problems we have go back to the Jew, and the focus should never be removed from them. Sure, in American we have problems with black people, everyone knows that, but how did they get here? Who enslaved them and owned the slave ships? Jews.” Will liberal immigration in Europe “destroy our racial and cultural heritage... and what of Islam and ISIS? “If all of the races intermix too much, there will be no solid white resistance to the international Zionists, and all the races will be enslaved. Islam is growing in the black community, and I think people will be surprised to hear me say this, but Islam represents discipline in many ways. And for the black community, those involved in the Nation of Islam – a black organization here tend to be well disciplined and not involved in drugs, crime, murder, etc, and tends to want to separate from white people – if anything, we are all for blacks getting involved in Nation of Islam. Regarding ISIS, there does appear to be some connection to the Zionist regime being behind this organization, and it does appear to be aimed at destabilizing Iran, Syria, and perhaps other nations who refuse to bow down to the Zionist terror state in occupied Palestine. How about the pro-white music industry? “The pro-white music industry is important, ever since Ian Stuart started the musical revolution with Skrewdriver, it's been an important component to the white struggle. It does seem that less bands are active currently, and concerts are fewer than before; however that can easily turn back around. One needs to remember that with online music and file sharing, it really hurt the music industry as a whole, even mainstream bands. In our scene, it was even harder hit. But, times change, and we adapt to the changes. We do have a label, NSM88 Records, and we ship worldwide with customers and support from all over the white world, so in that aspect the fight goes on.” In conclusion... “We are always ready for a fight, and it happens sometimes, and at times weapons do come into these demonstrations, but usually from the Antifa, not our people. We get death threats often, and at the most recent rally we did... with the KKK and NSM at the State Capitol in South Carolina, we were told one of the Antifa or black gang members came in with a gun, and another with a knife, so it can be dangerous – but we fight on regardless. We are usually outnumbered by the Antifa, but it does not concern us. Each one of us has more fight in us than four Antifa. Let them come and see what happens if they attack us! “We salute all the white organizations who are fighting worldwide for National Socialism. We are all a brotherhood whom support the cause of national socialism – now and forever -- until victory or Valhalla!”