Why should a US Vet should support NSM? The National Socialist Movement welcomes our heroes home! We affirm you and your duty to uphold the Constitution. We salute your service and that of your co-warriors for our homeland. NSM is a political activist group that uses many of the same values and disciplines of your soldier training. In America, homelessness and imprisonment with specters like PTSD and drug addiction threaten many of our warriors. But, good news is NSM gives camaraderie and support to each individual who joins us. We help with reintegration into a peaceful law abiding society. But, you because of your experience are positioned to organize and awaken our team units locally and regionally as we serve and care for the public. You could prove yourself by merit and obtain rank and loyalty of our servicemen and women. Don’t be a victim to giving up and depression. Each day has new light, hopeful opportunity and chances to make America stronger. We can do that through courage, integrity, wise and responsible teamwork – if we are united and strong. Share your Passion and dreams for this nation. JOIN NSM today! United to stop prison recidivism and End Homeless and Jobless Stagnation! NSM has an active prison outreach ministry-like program. Our society values prisoner reputation and street macho-ism higher then correction, personal virtue and traditional American values. We change that one life at a time. We give those who join us the chance to write letters, visit and mentor inmates so they can 'learn from their mistakes' that got them into trouble – even if it was a false charge or lack of smarts – wrong place, wrong time or wrong behavior. We advocate justice and character growth, but denounce violence and terrorist extremism in all forms. Our patriots are literate, loving America and want to push back at the moral degeneracy and social decline of poverty. We have a compassion to serve and assist the needy. Single parent homes are the number one cause of abortions and cohabitation as marriage flounders and people seek convenience instead of fidelity to absolute religious teachings. Our people are being discriminated against because of a culture that does not respect authority, support elected representation in an accountable government, and live as individuals the ideals of heroism, loyalty and honor, character with integrity, and a responsibility to do unto others as you would have them do to you. See our website at www.NSM88.org for information about how you can join and help our cause. It all begins with you White America – wake up, the time for passive inactive laziness and welfare is long gone. The needs are great but the resources of One People working for prosperity and freedom of mind expressed in action are truly something we can depend on indeed. Border Control is a sign of US lack of self-control and an indulgence problem. The Hispanic dream for America is a sick disaster – in exchange of traditional values we get a workforce, although graduating and looking good with skills it lacks the spirit that defines American identity: It lacks modesty, willingness to cooperate with the US government and people, it lacks sensitivity to White families. In saying it is tolerant of others’ opinions it denigrates anything except humanism, taking jobs, and breaking apart families. We can solve these national problems best if we work together. Loving treatment of refugees is not the same as letting them have health care, schools, or being elected to town councils and community leadership. In our opinion Amnesty is just another liberal bailout with money from the next generation. As humans we need not emphasize equality if it pulls down the ethnic White Protestant urban and rural strength of our people. If those who speak SPANISH vote democratic by over 2/3, compared to Republican 1/6 and independent 1/6, then we must surely say, “We don’t want you to infiltrate and change America for your own advantage!” Can’t we problem solve in a way free of judgment to stop gun trafficking, drug sales, gangs, terrorists entering and leaving as they will while the feds look the other way and not enforce a tight sealed border wall? If Americans blame foreigners perhaps we should do the field agriculture jobs, or be willing to do housework instead of relying on others. The technology of automation brought progress but we haven’t spent our time gained responsibly. Americans are becoming obese watching football and the Simpsons cartoons instead of coming to our brothers’ need. Do not promise a refugee a handout because what is given free is not earned and cheats everyone. The Founding Fathers, Puritans and Pilgrims came here for a country to live in freedom and righteous living – not for a chance to make money, own homes, or see children graduate from college. These people who came before us sometimes made the best of economic less but their reliance upon their own divine spirituality and each other inspires us to carry on with a belief and desire to return the United States to the greatness that we so have so nearly forsaken out of love of materialist comfort. That’s why capitalism and the socialist revolution are not solutions to our problems. We must support nation-building, a state that we can all help and defend, living ideals by work and frugality, and helping families play and stay together to strengthen our towns and cities. We want our children productive too! No, dividing our country because of self gratification and stealing others’ opportunities just makes us all poorer. Kindness and forgiveness demand concern for our brothers’ needs; we invite you to read our website www.NSM88.org. See how you can help, and whatever you do, Join now!