The American Civil War was an 'Equal Opportunity Destroyer.' Today's economy which is being torn apart by illegal immigration. Today's 'Civil War' is a battle to destroy White history. On November 7th on the steps of the Lee County Courthouse in Tupelo, Mississippi, history revisits Tupelo as the National Socialist Movement will continue its fight against Illegal Immigration. Between 2-4pm, the National Socialist Movement along with its allies will help Mississippi fight the invasion of Illegals into America! The National Socialist Movement is calling on all Mississippians and all Americans to come out and protest against issues that are destroying us! Saturday, November 7, 2015, members and supporters of the National Socialist Movement, along with members of the Texas Rebel Knights, Loyal White Knights, other Ku Klux Klan groups, as well as independents, assembled for a public rally in front of the Lee County Court House in historic Tupelo, Mississippi. Upon our arrival, at the venue, Tupelo police officers attempted to change our rally location to a sidewalk, hidden behind large trees and lacking working electrical outlets for our public address system. Within a few minutes, following a brief 'negotiation' lead by NSM Commander Jeff Schoep, we crossed the street to the originally designated location. By 2:00 pm, the light rain let up and the rally commenced, with Commander, Schoep, delivering a passionate speech condemning illegal immigration and our nation's corrupt political and economic systems. Ku Klux Klan leaders delivered their speeches, after which, Arthur Jones, a Republican candidate for the U.S. Senate, from Illinois, delivered his very provocative address. A couple of hecklers did manage to get through, as the police perimeter wasn't as secure, as intended. The police eventually hurried one woman away, when she attempted to interrupt Candidate Jones, while he was speaking. Police were also observed telling another person to shut up, as she was shouting at us. The National Socialist Movement's NSM Media recorded and live streamed audio via multiple media outlets in the U.S. and Europe, from this event. Upon completion of the rally, we marched back to our vehicles, parked at a staging area. The Tupelo Police created a traffic block, as our motorcade departed the downtown area. After returning to our hotel rooms, it was time for food, fun and camaraderie. The National Socialist Movement, America's largest and most active White racial sociopolitical organization stands in racial solidarity with all like minded white advocacy groups and individuals.