A tribal society like that of Arabia at the time when Prophet Muhammad (peace be upon him) received divine revelations normally defers to the chief of the tribe who decides on all matters. Such a chief often consults notable figures in the tribe, but the ultimate decision is his. Prophet Muhammad was the leader of the Muslim community right from its fledgling days up to the time when it became a powerful state in the full sense of the term. As he continued to receive revelations that included guidance on all matters, his authority was indisputable. He could, if he so wished, exercise total power, as do all rulers in totalitarian regimes. Prophet Muhammad, however, did nothing of the sort. On the contrary, he taught his followers and Muslims of all generations, that consultation on all matters, serious and trivial, is the best policy. Consultation requires respect for all views, including those voiced by even the weakest person in society. The Prophet always consulted his Companions, and those around him, on all affairs, showing respect for their views, and acting on any view that sounded right. In pre-Islamic days, women never figured in consultation on any tribal matter. They were hardly ever consulted on their own affairs, not even on their marriage. A father, or a guardian, or indeed the chief of the tribe, could force a woman into a marriage and she could have no say whatsoever. Prophet Muhammad changed all this, and gave women an equal status in society and a prominent position at home. In his treatment of his wives, he allowed them free choice in personal and family matters; and he consulted them in public affairs. When he married Umm Salamah, who had four children by her earlier marriage, he left her the choice: either he would stay with her for seven nights, then he would give each of his other wives seven nights, or he would stay with her three nights and then resume his normal round. She chose the latter, because she felt it to be better for her children. At the time of signing the Treaty of Hudaibiyah, he ordered his Companions to slaughter their sacrifices and release themselves from consecration, but none of them did. Umm Salamah's advice reflected clear insight into the mood that prevailed at the time and the way to overcome their feelings of frustration. Even on a question of religion, a woman might express a different view without being reproached. She is only told why her view is mistaken. Before the signing of the Treaty of Hudaibiyah, the Prophet's Companions pledged to him their full support, even if this meant fighting the Quraish tribe in their homeland. This was a pledge to die for the cause, as they subsequently explained. The pledge was given "under the tree", and God states in the Quran that He was pleased with all those who gave it. Once Prophet Muhammad said: "None of those who gave the pledge under the tree will be in hell." Hafsah, his wife, said: "Yes, messenger of God, they will. God says in the Quran what means: {There is not one among you who shall not pass over it (hell).}" (Maryam19:71) Prophet Muhammad said to her: "But then God follows that by saying: {We shall save those who are God-fearing, and leave the wrongdoers there, on their knees.}" (Maryam 19:72)" (Muslim, 2496)