Recorded hate crimes against Muslims and Jews have soared in the past year, with offences against Muslims spiking by 171 per cent in November following the Paris attacks, new Metropolitan Police figures have revealed. In the 12 months to November, the number of Islamophobic crimes recorded was 818 - 63.9 per cent higher than the 499 crimes recorded in the year to November 2014. In the month of November alone, there were 163 Islamophobic offences recorded compared to just 60 in November 2014. The Paris attacks took place on November 13. In the same period, 483 anti-Semitic crimes were recorded, a 61.5 per cent increase from 299 offences. The number of anti-Semitic attacks in November alone was down 53 per cent, recorded at 37 compared to 80 in November 2014. Conservative MP Stuart Andrew, who chairs the Commons all party group on Islamophobia, said recorded offences often spike after a major terrorist attack. He said it was important to communicate that Islamophobic attacks were a 'totally unacceptable' response to He told MailOnline: 'We were sort of expecting it - some of the numbers have shown that after attacks such as Paris we saw rises. 'I also think they are now properly recording it - before it just went down as a generic hate crime.' Mr Andrew added: 'Without looking at each individual case, it is difficult to assess but my instinct is there is a combination of police doing their work and engaging people to report it but equally it's a response some people make following attacks like Paris.' Labour MP John Mann, the chairman of the all party group on anti-Semitism, told MailOnline much of the rise had been driven by Twitter and other social media. He said: 'It's a significant increase and it's concerning. The internet is one of the factors - but not the only one. 'People are now more confident reporting incidents, that's undoubtedly the case. 'The internet has made a big difference over the last two years... the internet is giving cowards more confidence to be abusive. It's also helping to connect such people together.' Mr Mann said he had no criticism of the police and the way such offences were handled. He added: 'My big criticism is of the internet companies who are not providing information to the police to allow them to look into incidents.' A Metropolitan Police spokesman said: 'We are acutely aware that all areas of hate crime are still under reported and we are encouraged that more people feel confident to report racial and religious hate crimes, regardless if this is direct to Police or via a third party or online. 'The Met is committed to tackling hate crime in all its forms and we have long since recognised the impact of hate crime on communities and victims of hate crime must be assured that they will be taken seriously by the police. 'We have more than 900 specialist officers across London working in our Community Safety Units who are dedicated to investigating hate crime. 'We take positive action to investigate all hate crime allegations, support victims and their families and bring perpetrators to justice.' An Islamophobic offence is any which is perceived to be Islamophobic by the victim or any other person, that is intended to impact upon those known or perceived to be Muslim. Similarly, an anti-Semitic offence is any which is perceived to be anti-Semitic by the victim or any other person, that is intended to impact upon those known or perceived to be Jewish.