I was early in the morning on Saturday when Imam Muhammad Musri heard from a supervisor of the Al-Mumin Mosque in Titusville. "I got the information from the person, the supervisor, that something's wrong," Musri, president of the Islamic Society of Central Florida said. "The security cameras and windows and stuff were damaged." That supervisor then called police, Musri said. Titusville Police Department responded to the burglary call at the Islamic Society of Central Florida mosque around 6:15 a.m. on Saturday, a release states. Officers saw shattered windows, broken lights and security cameras, as well as bacon left near the front door. Police obtained video surveillance footage of a man removing a machete from his bag after he entered the mosque's carport around 11 p.m. on Friday. The suspect used that tool to vandalize the property, officers say. Rasha Mubarak, the Orlando regional coordinator for the Council on American-Islamic Relations, said she first heard about the vandalism through a relative in the Titusville area. She said that people are fearful of bringing their children back there. "We are seeing that there is a spike in these potential hate crimes," she said. "It's in the hands of law enforcement right now, and we are asking that it be investigated as a hate crime." A report on the Council on American-Islamic Relations website documented 71 "mosque incidents" from January to Dec. 16 of last year, with 29 reports of "damage, destruction, vandalism," and 29 reports of intimidation. In a release issued Sunday, the CAIR Florida Regional Operations Director Nezar Hamze said, "The use of pork in an incident of this type is one clear indicator of a possible bias motive for the vandalism." Musri said he believes the damage was caused by a single person with anti-Muslim sentiment. He does not believe the intent was to steal anything, he said. Musri added that he anticipates additional information on Monday. "We're just going based on security footage," Musri said. The mosque, located at 1011 S. Washington Ave., is one of several listed on the Islamic Society of Central Florida website. "This [mosque] was established in Dec. 1999," the website states. "It serves Muslims living in the Titusville area between Daytona Beach and Melbourne." Mubarak said that CAIR Florida offers security training to mosques, community centers, churches and synagogues. Titusville Police said that it was investigating strong leads on Sunday evening. Titusville Police Department asks that people with more information call them at 321-264-7800. They can also call Crimeline at 1-800-423-TIPS. "Luckily, no one was there at the time," Musri said. "So no confrontation happened."