Some things we have to do by the order of Allah like... Getting up early in the morning When you get up early in the morning you are supposed to say this: Alhamdu lillahilladhi ahyana ba'da ma amatana wa ilaihinnushur. It means: Thanks and praises to Allah who brought us to life after having given us death and to him we shall have to return. And don't forget to pray Fajr! And wash your face once you wake up. While entering the bathroom make sure to put you left foot in first and say this: Allahumma inni a'oodhu bika minal khubthi wal khaba'ith. It means: O Allah! I seek refuge with you from the bad and evil things. When we are in the bathroom we shouldn't talk. Come out and put your right foot out first and say the following supplication: Ghufranaka. Alhamdu lillahilladhi adhaba anniladha wa'afani. It means I ask for your forgiveness. Thanks and praises to Allah who removed from me the suffering and gave me relief. Wash your hands three times, then rinse your mouth three times with right hand. Rinse your nose three times with left hand. Then wash your face three times. Then wash your forearms up to elbows three times. After that wipe your head with water once. Insert your index fingers in your ear holes, then wipe the back of your ears with thumb and front of your ears with index fingers. Now in the end wash your feet and rub your toes with you little fingers to make sure that water reaches between them. During this whole process make sure not to waste water. There is a saying of the prophet that even if you are standing on the banks of the river, do not waste any water. After completing wudu you should say: Ash-hadu alla illallh wa ash-hadu anna Muhammadan abduhu wa rasuluhu. When you leave the house you should say:Bismillahi tawak-kaltu alallah wa la haula wa la quwwata illah billah. It means: In the name of Allah. I put my trust in Allah and there is no strength nor power except Allah. When you are late for prayer some run towards the Masjid. But we should not do that because Allah's Messenger has said: When you hear the Iqamah, proceed to offer the prayer with calmness and solemnity and do not make haste. Pray whatever you are able to pray and complete what ever you have missed. When you enter the Masjid put your right foot in first and say:Bismillahi wassalatu wassalamu ala rasulilah. Allahummaftahli abwaba rahmatik. It means: In the name of Allah and peace and blessings be upon the Messenger of Allah. O Allah! Open for me the doors of your mercy. Let's say I was eating a melon and I forgot to say Bismillah our Prophet has given us guidance on all aspects of life. He taught us that if somebody forgot to say Bismillah before starting the meal he should say: Bismillah awwalahu wa akhirahu. (I start in the name of Allah at the beginning and end. You should also eat with your right hand and from what's in front of you. Also when you have food in your mouth we must not talk, that is bad manners. After your done eating you should say: Alhamdul illahilladhi at'amani hadhatta ama wa razaqanihi, min ghairi haulim,-minni wa la quwwatin. There are 5 prayers that we must pray: Fajr- Dhur- Asr- Maghrib- Isha.