Violent clashes erupted in Greek refugee camps among panicked migrants as Greece and the European Union pressed ahead on Friday with a plan to expel them from Europe and deport thousands back to Turkey starting Monday. Hundreds of migrants broke out of an overcrowded detention center on the Greek island of Chios where they were being held and began walking to the port to protest a European Union deal that went into effect in March, authorizing Greece to return them to Turkey if their applications for asylum in Europe were not accepted. Video clips in the Greek media showed migrants streaming away from the camp unhindered by the police, hours after a brawl broke out at the camp’s registration center. Several refugees were taken to a hospital after the riot police used stun grenades and a help center run by the aid group Doctors Without Borders was destroyed, forcing the group to abandon its work. More than 1,500 migrants were being held at the center, designed for 1,200. Three people were also reported stabbed during a migrant riot on the island of Samos, where another detention facility operates. Several major humanitarian groups, including Doctors Without Borders, the United Nations refugee agency and the International Rescue Committee recently suspended some of the work they do at detention centers to protest the European Union deal, which they say violates international law. The groups cited deteriorating conditions at migrant camps, including a makeshift camp in the northern Greek border town of Idomeni, where more than 12,000 migrants have settled in squalid conditions since Europe’s borders closed last month, and in Piraeus, the port city near Athens, where nearly 6,000 migrants are now living roughly in tents and warehouses. In Geneva, the refugee agency warned on Friday that neither Greece nor Turkey were ready to handle mass returns of migrants, and said that both countries needed to provide further protections for asylum seekers before undertaking deportations. Amnesty International, which has fiercely opposed the deal, said on Friday it had proof that Turkey was not a safe country for refugees. In a scathing report it accused Ankara of forcing hundreds of Syrian asylum seekers back to their war-torn country, contravening human rights procedures. Greece’s Parliament nonetheless scrambled Friday to get a legal framework in place before Monday to permit it to carry out its end of the European Union deal. In a hurried session, lawmakers were expected to support draft legislation to allow returns to begin Monday, most likely from the Greek island of Lesbos, where large numbers of Afghan and Pakistani migrants have been held since the bloc signed the accord with Turkey. More than 50,000 other migrants who are stuck on the Greek mainland remain in limbo about their future, but are growing increasingly restless ahead of the deportation scheme. On Wednesday, around 300 migrants, mostly Afghans and Syrians, engaged in the latest of several violent clashes in the Piraeus port, where many have been holed up since Macedonia and other northern countries closed their borders, cutting off Europe’s main gateway to Germany, the migrants’ preferred destination. In Idomeni, two migrants set themselves on fire earlier this week to protest the border closures after being stuck in the camp for nearly a month. Hundreds of migrants there have joined the growing protests, chanting “Open the border!” and refusing to take buses to official military-run camps nearby out of fear they could be deported to Turkey.