Particularly in view of such achievements as the killing last week of Rahman Mustafa al-Qaduli — who was, in effect, the treasurer of the Islamic State — it is more vital than ever that the U.S. does not allow events such as the Brussels attacks to derail our current overall strategy against that enemy. To understand more fully why, we should take a close, honest look at what happened in the capital of the European Union. For decades, Brussels has been the deceptively picturesque European Wild West of global terrorism, the place where anyone could buy almost any kind of long arm or sidearm, where the materials for constructing crude chemical bombs such as those used in both Paris and Belgium could be easily purchased and mixed with relative impunity. PRESIDENT OBAMA SAYS DON'T LET TERRORISTS 'WEAKEN OUR FAITH' All this remained true so long as the Belgian government obeyed the one Eternal Rule of Appeasement: If you confine your attacks to nations other than our own, we will leave you alone to do your dirty work. It never works. The clock always runs out on appeasers. It ran out on the U.S. when President Bill Clinton ignored the advice of his most informed advisers, such as Richard Clarke, and made only meager attempts to decapitate Al Qaeda. It ran out on Britain when popular sentiment in that country shifted away from the aggressive pursuit of Islamists and their supporters. Yet now, these supposedly surprise attacks are being used by everyone from ordinarily liberal voices to fire-eating conservatives to prove that President Obama’s approach to fighting the Islamic State is supposedly mistaken. Ordinarily, these claims could be dismissed as the panicky rants of opportunistic politicians, terrified periodical columnists and book-flogging terrorism specialists. Underlying all such mistaken talk has been one consistent claim: Obama’s strategy of using Special Forces to advise local fighters, mark targets for American bombers and drones, and kill or capture enemy leaders is not enough. We must do more, they say. The West as a whole must do more. Someone must do something . This isn’t all wrong. It is true, for instance, that the other members of the West have done far too little to fight the Islamic State. It is also true that Obama arrived at his current strategy only after a long string of foolish declarations of “red lines” and other failed policies. But none of this means that the President and his team have not, at last, hit — even if accidentally — on the correct strategy: of steady, consistent but precise air and Special Forces attacks to slowly but surely strangle ISIS. It is understandable that we would like to simply “wipe ISIS out,” as more than one Republican candidate has put it. Kill their families, torture combatants when captured, says Donald Trump. “Intensify attacks,” adds Hillary Clinton, and create a “broader target set,” as if such were just a matter of flipping a strategic switch. But Americans need to understand one threshold psychological fact: In the global war on terrorism, which is what we are still fighting and will be fighting for many years to come, there is never going to be a “Hiroshima event.” Ever since the end of the Second World War in the Pacific, which at last wrote an end to the many years of that global conflict, Americans have clung desperately to one notion: that if anyone terrified us too greatly, or threatened us too greatly, or killed too many of our civilians, they could ultimately be dispatched, “nuked back to the Stone Age.” Yet how do you achieve such a result in the case of Islamists who are hiding amid the roughly 1.6 billion Muslims worldwide? And what of the innocent civilian lives that Donald Trump and his ilk claim to care so little about? Is any American leader really prepared to slaughter them? The answer, of course, is no. There will be no sudden act or decision on our part that will produce a quick victory, especially any decision to lower ourselves (again) by torturing prisoners or committing other war crimes. If anything ought to have demonstrated the truth of this point, it was the killing of Osama Bin Laden. When word of the Al Qaeda leader's death at the hands of American Special Forces operatives hit the airwaves in this country, people filled the streets in demonstrations of relief and premature triumph. Yet Bin Laden’s death has meant very little to the overall cause of radical Islamist terrorism. Indeed, in the case of ISIS, it has probably made matters worse, by removing the one man within the Islamist community who could and indeed was trying to prevent the most savage Islamist elements from butchering civilians and other Muslims. Obama’s current policy is, indeed, a slow strangulation. But it is the only militarily feasible way to proceed. If we attempt something more dramatic, not only will we again impoverish our national treasure, not only we will we play into ISIS’ hands by bringing it new recruits, not only will we further betray American values, we will also not succeed. Sadly, since 9/11, this has never been a satisfactory answer for a panicky America.