Tariq Aziz, a former top aide to Saddam Hussein and his urbane public relations representative to the world, was sentenced to death by an Iraqi court on Tuesday, convicted of crimes against members of rival Shiite political parties. The sentence was handed down in the latest in a series of criminal cases brought against Mr. Aziz, 74, and other top figures in what had been Mr. Hussein’s government. For years, Mr. Aziz, a former foreign minister and deputy prime minister, served as the bespectacled face of that government, a cigar-smoking emissary who sought to justify, in fluent English, Iraq’s use of chemical weapons, invasion of oil-rich Kuwait, and killings of Shiites and Kurds. Because Mr. Hussein rarely left Iraq out of fears for his safety, Mr. Aziz often represented Iraq at the United Nations and other global settings, serving as a public defender of Mr. Hussein before the American-led invasion of 2003. Mr. Aziz surrendered to American forces shortly after the invasion, aware that, for Americans, he was among Iraq’s most hunted officials and one of the best-known emblems of the Hussein era. He was handed over to Iraqi jailers this year as part of the United States transfer of security powers to Iraq as it withdrew its last combat troops. Mr. Aziz’s death sentence followed convictions on charges of persecution against members of the religious Shiite Dawa Party, whose members include Iraq’s current prime minister, Nuri Kamal al-Maliki. It was unclear when Mr. Aziz would be executed, if ever. One of Mr. Aziz’s lawyers, Badea Araf Azzit, said he was considering whether to appeal. He dismissed the sentence as a ploy aimed at distracting attention from Iraq’s political stalemate and the recent publication of a trove of American war records that described widespread prisoner abuse by Iraqi guards and security forces. “It is a political judgment,” Mr. Azzit said. Mr. Aziz’s lawyers have long claimed that he was responsible only for Iraq’s diplomatic and political relations, and that he had no ties to the executions and purges carried out by Mr. Hussein’s government. Mr. Hussein was hanged in 2006, less than two months after his death sentence was handed down. In a telephone interview, Mr. Aziz’s son Ziad, 44, said he believed that his father was blindsided by the news. When they spoke by telephone three days earlier, Tariq Aziz asked his son, who lives in Jordan, to send him clothes, food and medicine, and he did not mention that sentencing was imminent. “We don’t know the next step,” Ziad Aziz said. “We have no chance of protecting him.” Ziad Aziz said his father remained in poor health. In January, the American military said in a statement that he had a blood clot in the brain. He was taken to an American military hospital north of Baghdad for treatment. In March 2009, Mr. Aziz was sentenced to 15 years in prison for crimes against humanity, but he was acquitted earlier that month on charges of ordering a 1999 crackdown against Shiite protesters after a revered Shiite cleric was assassinated. He is also serving a seven-year prison sentence for a case involving the forced displacement of Kurds in northern Iraq. Death sentences were also handed down on Tuesday against other former officials in Mr. Hussein’s government including Abed Hammoud, a former secretary to Mr. Hussein, and former Interior Minister Sadoun Shakir. In other developments in Iraq on Tuesday: ¶ Gunmen in the northern city of Kirkuk, armed with hand grenades and rocket-propelled grenades, staged an audacious evening robbery on the city’s largest gold market, killing 10 people — at least 6 of them police officers — and wounding 15 others. It was part of a string of deadly and coordinated robberies against Iraqi merchants. ¶ Further north, the political gamesmanship over who will control Iraq’s new government continued. Former Prime Minister Ayad Allawi traveled to Erbil to meet with the Kurdish region’s president, Massoud Barzani, whose support is likely to be critical in breaking the deadlock. The Kurds emerged as political kingmakers after March elections failed to produce a clear winner, precipitating a deadlock between Mr. Maliki’s Shiite coalition and the group led by Mr. Allawi, which narrowly won the most seats in Parliament. Mr. Maliki, who has remained acting prime minister during the deadlock, now appears likely to keep his job after winning the support of a bloc led by Moktada al-Sadr, a Shiite cleric known for his anti-American bent and intimate ties to Iran.